All Fun and Games
Until Somebody
Loses an Eye
Christopher Brookmyre

ABACUS
First published in Great Britain in May 2005 by Little, Brown
This paperback edition published in April 2006 by Abacus
Copyright © 2005 Christopher Brookmvre
‘Teenage Wristband’ written by Greg Dulli. From the Twilight Singers album
Blackberry Belle. Copyright © 2003 Kali Nichta Music (BMI).
Lyrics reproduced by kind permission of Greg Dulli.
www.thetwilightsingers.com
The moral right of the author has been asserted.

All characters in this publication other than those clearly in the public domain are
fictitious and any resemblance to real persons, living or dead, is purely coincidental.
All rights reserved.

No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or
transmitted, in any form or by any means, without the prior permission in writing of
the publisher, nor be otherwise circulated in any form of binding or cover other than
that in which it is published and without a similar condition including this condition
being imposed on the subsequent purchaser.

A CIP catalogue record for this book
is available from the British Library.

ISBN-10: 0-3491-1745-4
ISBN-13: 978-0-3491-1745-4
Typeset in Palatino by Palimpsest Book Production Limited,

Polmont, Stirlingshire
Printed and bound in Great Britain by
Clays Ltd, St Ives ple
Abacus
An imprint of
Time Warner Book Group UK
Brettenham House
Lancaster Place
London WC2E 7EN
www.twbg.co.uk

For Hilary Hale and Caroline Dawnay,
without whom ...
Thanks: Marisa, Greg Dulli, Roger Cantwell and Duncan Spilling
for fitting all those words on the cover.
Special thanks also to Calvin for their song ‘Supercar’, which
resonated so hauntingly around the time I conceived this little
fairy tale.


Contents

Toyz 1
Sports cars and casinos 37
The specialist 51
Ride, then 75
Abduction: how to do it properly 95
Unsafe building 103
The land of do as you please 135
Dislocation 147
Bhoys n the hood 161
Vital away fixture 171
Project fuckwit 193
The perfect apprentice 209
A tale of a tub 241
|, spy 249
Oil and water 269
Decent, normal, sensible girls 279
A Basque tale (old as time?) 293
Stolen glimpses 303

Twilight and dark water 307
One last bullet 319
The homer 331

Ive allowed myself to lead this little life,
when inside me there was so much more.
Shirley Valentine, by Willy Russell
The secret of a joyful life is to live dangerously.
Nietzsche


Toyz
‘It would encourage me, you know, to think... or rather it would comfort
me, no, wrong word, well, maybe the right word, but it would, you know,
inspire me but at the same time sort of soothe me in an all-is-well-in-heaven-
and-earth kind of way to think, ah, what am I trying to say here?’

Som was sitting on an upturned black flight case, rocking it back ten or
fifteen degrees as he rolled his heels on the frosted gravel in front of Bett’s
mansion. Lex wished he wouldn't do that, really wished he wouldn’t do that.
Okay, it was Som’s case, Som’s stuff, and maybe he was cool with the contents
getting clattered in the less-than-improbable event that his feet slipped and
put him on his skinny Thai ass, but that wasn’t the point. It was bad prac-
tice. There were several black flight cases sitting out there with the three of
them in the cold tonight, as on any such night, and Lex didn’t much like the
thought of Som using the vessel of her fragile, delicately packed and fastidi-
ously inventoried kit as a makeshift shooting stick. Weighing further upon her
discomfiture was the fact that Armand’s flight cases were occasionally known
to accommodate materials sufficient to denude the immediate vicinity of any
standing structure, mammalian life, or even vegetation.

‘Som, you're 404-ing,’ she warned him.

‘Sorry. I’m just saying, wouldn’t you love to believe that somewhere in this
world there really is at least one — just one — hollowed-out volcano containing
a super high-tech ops base under the command of a fully fledged evil genius?
I mean, I could live with all the havoc the evil genius might wreak simply to
know there was a facility like that in existence. It would just make the world a
more fantastical place, don’t you reckon? In a Santa-really-does-exist-after-all
kind of way, you know?’

‘Would it need to have a retractable roof for space-rockets and nuclear mis-
siles to launch through?’ Armand asked, bringing a measured irritation to
bear in the precision of his accented pronunciation.

Td settle for a submarine dock,’ Som responded, with an equally measured,
deliberate guilelessness.

‘So,’ the Frenchman said, ‘the thought of an actual, existent, staffed and
fully functioning underground base doesn’t, how would you say, blow your

1

hair back? It must be inside a hollowed-out volcano and run by a cackling
megalomaniac or it’s merely part of the crushing ordinariness of life’s relent-
lessly drab ennui?’

‘Not at all,’ Som protested. ‘I didn’t say that. Did I say that?’

‘No, but you could be more “up” about it,’ Armand complained. ‘I’ve been
looking forward to this, you know. Really looking forward to it.’

Lex smiled to herself at the sight of Armand — mercenary, soldier, explosives
adept and trained killer — putting on a petted lip and acting like a disappointed
child for the express purpose of winding up a scrawny adolescent techno-geek
half his age.

Tm “up”, Som insisted. ‘’m extremely up. I’m looking forward to it as
much as you. I’m just, you know, insulating myself against disappointment.’

‘A pitifully negative approach to life,’ Armand condemned.

‘Easy for you to say. When I was a kid, my parents took me to Tunisia, and
we went to visit the place they filmed Star Wars. I was eight years old, and—

Pitifully negative,’ Armand repeated. And cowardly to boot.’

Tm just saying, I’d love to believe it’ll be all chrome and glass and LED
read-outs everywhere, but I’m preparing myself in case it’s just a quarry with
a roof.’

‘Silence, coward. Be gone. Alexis, ma chére, when Rebekah gets here with
our transport, I’m going to sit up front with our designated driver. Sorry to
land you with Som, but I plan on enjoying myself this evening and I don’t
want him “bumming me out”.’

‘Yeah, sure,’ Lex said, rolling her eyes. ‘That’s why you want to sit beside
Rebekah. Forget it. It'll be girls in the front, boys in the back. I’ve been waiting
years for some female solidarity around here.’

Armand waved dismissively at her, but knew she wouldn’t be giving ground,
just as she knew he had no intention of sitting anywhere but next to his play-
mate. There had to be twenty years between them, but as Som and Armand’s
relationship seemed to be based upon bringing out each other’s inner thirteen-
year-old, the age gap was irrelevant to their inseparable (and often insuffer-
able) camaraderie. It was the female solidarity she was less sure about. Re-
bekah had been with the outfit a month now and, despite being the only other
female, they’d barely engaged in anything other than the most perfunctory of
exchanges.

This was pretty familiar, however. Lex had seen it before, in herself and,
more recently, in Somboon. The blasé and cocky figure who was so non-
chalantly leaning on easily fifty thousand dollars’ worth of electronics, as he
bantered about the interior fittings of the underground weapons facility they
were about to assault, might fail to recognise the hunched and introverted
serial nail-biter who’d barely managed anything more articulate than gaze-

averted mumbles for the first month in their company. Rebekah had been less
physically withdrawn than Som was during those earliest days, and she looked
unused to shrinking from anyone’s gaze, not least because she was five-nine
and a looker. She was always straight-backed and forthright in her posture,
but this struck Lex as a conditioned reflex, a body-language statement of ‘no
comment’. When she did speak, her accent was American, the delivery a lit-
tle clipped and forced, like discipline was overruling shyness and more than
a little fear. Som had once referred to her as ‘the she-bot’, a throwaway re-
mark that nonetheless accurately identified something automated about her
behaviour.

Rebekah had been unquestionably scared, nervous of her new environment
and untrusting of its apparent security; noticeably starting at telephones and
doorbells and, rather curiously, at overhead aircraft. Post-traumatic stress
disorder, or what used to be known as plain old shell-shock, any observer
might reasonably have diagnosed, but Lex could identify the symptoms of a
more specific anxiety: that of the fugitive. The girl was still waiting for a
trapdoor to open beneath her.

‘Lex, you’re welcome to sit with Rebekah, far as I’m concerned,’ Som said.
‘I figure “the Transport Manager” has gotta have some serious driving skillz.
She’s gonna be throwing that bus around, man. I don’t want a front-row seat.’

‘ could hear that z, Som,’ Lex warned him. ‘You’ve got to drop the leet
speak. Seriously. I’m the hacker here.’

Tm so grateful to the American cultural imperialists that they have made
English the international language of code-crunchers and keypad monkeys,’
Armand said with a sigh, the steam of his breath billowing affectedly in the
moonlight. ‘It would pain me too much to hear French so vandalised.’

‘Ah, bullshit,’ Som replied. ‘French is just too effete-sounding to be of any
use with technology. I mean, listen: ordinateur. That sounds like something
that runs on steam, with, like, brass fittings and a big wooden plinth.’

‘Exactly. You describe elegance and grace, agelessness and finery. That is
French. Plastic, fibreglass, coils of tangled cable, porno download, shoot-em-
up — English, English, English.’

Fuck you.’

‘Encore, Anglais, Anglais, Anglais.’

‘Our new Transport Manager.’ That was how Rebekah had been introduced
by Bett, with their leader’s typically cryptic brevity. Each one of them came
here with two things: a talent and a past. Everybody would find out the
former soon enough, but only Bett would be privy to the latter.

Bett knew everyone’s past, but nobody knew his. There were fragments
one could piece together, clues in remarks and logical assumptions, but they
didn’t render a whole that was either coherent or remotely vivid. Some mili-

tary involvement, obviously. Police work, here in France and possibly further
afield. No wife, no children, no siblings or parents ever referred to. Multilin-
gual. First language: pick one from three. Accent unplaceable. Provenance
unknowable. A cipher, and yet known in certain influential circles. Private,
and yet highly connected. Cold, and yet conscientiously loyal. Solitary, and
yet surrounding himself with cohorts, generally much younger, who were en-
ergetic and often immature.

Bett collected them, brought to his attention by shadowy contacts and
murkily submerged channels of information. Rescued them, no question,
from each of their secret pasts, but he kept hold of those secrets too, an
unspoken but ever-looming means of leverage. His employees were thus a
remarkable raggle-taggle of waifs and strays, who found themselves grateful
but beholden, and not a little scared. Lex didn’t know anyone else’s story
for certain, but guessed they would share a number of elements, prominent
among them a precipitous epiphany regarding the price a single rash act could
exact from what one only now realised had been a bright future.

In her case, she put it down to adolescent impetuousness and misdirected
anger. Mistakes we all made on the road to adulthood, lessons we could only
learn first hand. Nineteen was a difficult age. Anything beyond twelve, in
fact, was a difficult age, but turning nineteen stuck in the mind as being espe-
cially tough — something to do with her parents’ marriage breaking up around
that particular birthday, which happened to be September 12th 2001. Ado-
lescent impetuousness. Alienation. Despair. Misdirected anger. A common
enough story. You let your feelings get the better of you and you do some-
thing that makes sense at the time, but which will have far more damaging
consequences than you have the vision or clarity to foresee from your emo-
tional and immature perspective. Such as getting shit-faced and totalling your
dad’s car, deliberately screwing up your exams, selling off your mom’s heir-
loom jewellery, or causing an overseas emergency and mid-level international
diplomatic crisis from inside your Toronto bedroom.

Yeah. Oops, huh?

Seemed like a compelling idea at the time. Her own private act of post
9-11 anger, prompted largely by the war in Afghanistan and not at all by
her parents’ marriage disintegrating. Afghanistan. That’s where they were
bombing. What the hell was there to bomb in Afghanistan? Wouldn’t they
have to send some army engineers over there to build some shit first, kinda to
make the bombing runs worthwhile? Nineteen of the hijackers were Saudis.
Bin Laden was a Saudi. The money was Saudi, the ideological pressure was
Saudi. So let’s bomb Afghanistan. Fuck that.

She shut down a power station near Jedda and halted production in two
major oilfields for close to eight hours. It was embarrassingly easy. In fact,

if it had been even slightly harder, maybe she’d have stopped to think a little
more about just what the hell she was doing. It didn’t even take very long,
nor was it a particularly cute or elegant hack. She just enslaved a couple of
home PCs somewhere in Kuwait and used them as bots to orchestrate a crude,
worm-led, denial-of-service email attack. This predictably led the on-site techs
to shut down and reboot all but the core operating systems required to keep
the station online, conveniently isolating and identifying the masked ports she
needed access to in order to really screw things up.

There was predictable panic at the business end over motive, perpetrators
and what the attack might be a precursor to. Al Qaeda? Iraq? Israel? The
US? Calls were made, denials issued, intelligence sources tapped. Fighter
jets, she later learned, were put on standby in at least two countries. But
while all this was happening, some tiber-geek in Finland, hastily retained by
an oil company, was following a clumsily discarded trail of evidence all the
way back to that notorious global aggressor, Canada.

What do you mean you never heard about it on the news?

Embarrassment stings far less if there are fewer observers, and international
embarrassment is no different. Neither Canada nor Saudi were ever going to
look good over this one, and they knew it would be mutually convenient to
write off their losses and cover it up. Countries did it all the time, though it
was easier when it was unilateral. A couple of months back, for instance, the
US had misplaced a Harrier jump jet, and decided that avoiding scrutiny of
the circumstances was worth more than however many million the hardware
would cost to replace. Lessons were no doubt learned, private apologies and
assurances granted, but, officially, nothing happened, a position that ironi-
cally might have been harder to maintain had they actually apprehended the
perpetrator.

Nobody heard about it on the news, though that didn’t mean nobody knew.
Bett sure knew, like he knew oh so many things, and he knew early enough to
tip her off that she was hours away from being arrested.

Ah, yes, there was a memorable little interlude. Was she ever done wishing
she could experience those fun few moments again, as she contemplated what
some petulant keystrokes had wrought for herself in the big, wide world.
He informed her by email, attaching copies of confidential correspondence,
transcripts of briefings, damage reports, estimates of financial implications,
projected costs of security upgrading and increased insurance premiums. A
lot of very powerful, very important and very serious people would be looking
for retribution over this, and that was just at the Canadian end. It looked
like the last screaming tantrum of her teen years was going to hamstring her
adulthood. She could see college disappearing from the horizon and prison
looming up in its place. She could see a weary and crushed version of herself

released in five to seven, subject to restraining orders forbidding her access
to computers, the one thing in her life that she knew how to make sense of.
She could see a long career in waitressing, serving coffee to the people who
actually mattered, before slouching home to a shitty apartment filled with
laundry and regrets.

Bett had offered a way out. Taking it was only marginally less scary than
what she was already staring down the barrel of, involving, as it did, dis-
appearing from her old life with just the clothes on her back (and doing so
within an hour of receiving the email), but as far as decisions went, it was a
no-brainer. Not quite the career trajectory she’d once envisaged, but things
had worked out a lot more colourfully than the future had looked from her
old bedroom. She had a great apartment in a beautiful village in the south of
France. She had a good job with an excellent salary, plus health and dental.
The only niggling flaw was there was no fixed term of contract and nothing in
the small print regarding how you went about leaving. Oh, and it occasionally
involved killing people.

To Lex’s relief, Som at last stood up straight, the flight case gently righting
itself as he relieved it of his weight. He jumped up and down on the spot a
couple of times and wrapped his arms around himself.

‘I hope this place we’re hitting has central heating,’ he said. ‘Wouldn’t have
to worry if it was a hollowed-out volcano. The top-of-the-range ones have
a pool of boiling lava for the evil genius to dispose of dissenters and broil
burgers at masterplan-launching parties.’

‘This isn’t cold,’ Lex told him. ‘Try winter in Ontario some time. You should
have more layers on too.’

‘I didn’t expect to be standing out here more than a couple of minutes. Plus,
we'll have to change when we get there. Bett would have mentioned clothing
at the briefing if it was an issue, wouldn’t he?’

‘ don’t know,’ Lex replied. ‘Maybe he did. I wasn’t listening. I thought it
was your turn to pay attention.’

‘No, I traded with Armand. I have to pay attention next time. Armand?’

Tm sorry, | fell asleep,” Armand said with a shrug. ‘I’m sure he didn’t say
anything important.’

‘Where is Bett anyway?’ Lex asked.

‘Probably taking a bath,’ Armand told her. ‘You leave that man unoccupied
for any length of time and psshh! He’s in the tub.’

‘Hey, he’s the boss,’ she reasoned. ‘Guy owns a mansion with half-a-dozen
bathrooms. Maybe he figures he’s gotta get his use out of all of them or he’s
wasted his money.’

‘Whatever makes him happy,’ Som said, stamping his feet on the flagstones.

‘He’s Bett,’ Lex reminded him. ‘Nothing makes him happy.’

‘Okay, whatever makes him marginally less belligerent.’

‘He’s got this forecourt bugged, you both know that?’ Armand warned,
casting his eyes melodramatically towards a nearby fir.

‘Seriously, is he around?’ Lex asked again. ‘Because it doesn’t look like
anybody’s home. Or are we meeting him there?’

‘That’s a negative,’ Som said. ‘Nuno’s meeting us there. I’m pretty sure I
heard Rebekah say we were gonna pick up Bett in Aix.’

‘In Aix?’ Lex asked, a little dismayed. ‘This place is in the Alps. If we’re
picking up Bett en route, we’ll be lucky to get there by lunchtime tomorrow.
Are we planning to hit it in daylight, is that the deal? What would be the
point of that? Who the hell hits a place like Marledoq in the middle of the
afternoon?’

‘Maybe that is the point,’ Armand suggested, smiling. ‘Why pay anyone to
guard it during office hours if the thieves and marauders only work the late
shift?’

‘You’ve been around Bett too long. You're starting to sound like him with
that disingenuous bullshit.’

Som rasped his lips and shuddered.

‘Day or night, we’re not going to get there at all if the wheels don’t show
up. Where is she?’

‘Why don’t you wait inside if you’re cold?’ Lex suggested, prompting him to
glance back bitterly at the mansion’s sturdily locked storm doors.

‘Yeah, very funny. But I’m gonna go sit in my car if she doesn’t show soon.
What’s the time?’

‘Seven minutes past five,’ Lex told him.

‘She’s cutting it fine,’ Som said. ‘You know what Bett’s like about punctuality.
“Late is what we call the dead”,’ he quoted.

‘She’s not late yet,’ Lex observed. ‘She was only going to Nice, to pick up
our ride, she said.’

‘She said that much?’ muttered Som. ‘Favouritism.’

‘Our ride?’ asked Armand. ‘What’s wrong with the old charabanc?’

‘Maybe it wouldn’t stand up to her hot driving skillz,’ Som suggested, em-
phasising the z for Lex’s benefit.

Tm not so convinced about that,’ Armand said. ‘Have you seen her in that
new Beetle?’

‘Yeah,’ Lex agreed. ‘I saw her driving out of here yesterday and it was
rocking like it was being boffed by an invisible Herbie.’

‘A bit rusty with the manual transmission,’ Armand mused. ‘Not unusual for
a visitor recently arrived from the United States,’ he added archly, alluding to
the typically shady provenance of Bett’s latest appointment.

‘Yeah, well, whatever her story, Bett wouldn’t be calling her “Transport Man-
ager” for nothing,’ Som insisted. ‘Hey, what time’s it now?’ he then asked.

It’s ...’ Lex started, but stopped herself as it occurred to her that Som could
not possibly have come out on an op minus a timepiece. ‘Why don’t you look
at your own watch?’

‘ don’t want to roll up my sleeve. Too cold.’

‘You're a pussy, Som,’ she told him. A shivering, pitiful Thai pussy.’

‘Thai pussy beaucoup good,’ he responded in a hammy accent. ‘Love you
long time.’

‘It’s nine minutes past,’ she told him, mainly to stop the routine going any
further.

‘Shit. Doesn’t augur well for Rebekah’s first op,’ he stated.

‘She’s not late yet,’ Lex reiterated. ‘Not for fifty seconds, least-ways.’

‘Well, I don’t see any headlights.’

“Maybe her killer skillz let her drive in the dark,’ Lex told him, emphasising
the z herself this time.

‘Shhh,’ said Armand. ‘Listen. Do you hear that?’

‘What?’ asked Som.

Nobody said anything for a few moments, allowing them to hear a low bassy
sound, distant but getting incrementally louder by the second.

‘You gotta be kidding me,’ Lex declared. She stepped further out into the
forecourt and looked around, but saw only black night beyond the avenue of
trees. Still the noise grew nearer.

‘No way,’ said Som.

‘Thirty seconds,’ Armand remarked, standing away from the flight cases and
looking towards the house, from which direction the sound was approaching.

Less than ten seconds later, the black shape of a helicopter swooped up-
wards into sight above the building and circled the property once by way of
signalling intention to land on the gravel. The three of them stepped back
towards the house, Lex taking a moment to rest Som’s flight case down flat
before making her retreat.

She looked at her watch again. The chopper touched down at nine minutes
and fifty-four seconds past five.

‘She’s six seconds early,’ Lex reported to Som above the storm of the rotor-
blades. ‘Oh ye of little faith.’

‘Transport Manager,’ Som called back. ‘Very funny. I guess she meant Nice
as in Nice Céte d’Azure airport, for a charter. Wonder who she hired to fly the
thing. Somebody who can keep his mouth shut, I hope.’

The front cabin door opened and out stepped Rebekah in a black one-piece
jumpsuit, her blonde hair fluttering untidily in the wind where it spilled from
beneath her helmet. She slid open the door to the passenger cabin and strode

towards the flight cases. Given their cue, Lex, Som and Armand came forward
again and joined her in loading their equipment. Directly underneath the
blades, the noise was too intense to allow any verbal communication, so an
exchange of gestures conveyed that everything was in place and they were
ready to board. Som eagerly climbed in first, followed by Lex, deferred to
by the bowing Armand. Rebekah then slammed the cabin door closed and
returned to her seat at the controls. It was far quieter inside, but the noise
level increased again as the blades accelerated in preparation for take-off. A
voice cut across the growing whine, carried clearly over embedded speakers
along both sides of the cabin.

‘Good evening everybody and welcome aboard this Eurocopter Dauphin
AS365N2 travelling to Marledog via Aix en Provence. We will be leaving very
shortly, so please fasten your seat belts and place all personal items, including
handguns, tasers and plastic explosives, securely in the hatches provided. We
ask also at this time that you stow all mobile phones and personal tracking de-
vices, and that passengers with laptops refrain from hacking any mainframe
computer systems as this can interfere with our navigational instruments. We
would like to take this opportunity to say thank you for flying Air Bett, and
that we appreciate you have no choice.’

The stop in Aix was brief, little more than a touchdown. The chopper landed
in a car park on the perimeter of a light industrial estate outside the city. A
solitary figure stood motionless on the black-top beneath the yellow sodium
of street lights, Flanked either side by aluminium cases. Frost had enveloped
all but one of the four cars lined up closest to the abutting low-rise building,
windscreens and bodywork glinting as the chopper’s lights passed over them.

Bett began walking forward as soon as the wheels met the earth, leaving
the cases where they stood. Without prompt, Armand opened the door and
climbed out, moving with brisk but unhurried steps to retrieve Bett’s luggage.
Bett climbed aboard, ignoring Som’s proffered hand-up, and took a rear-facing
seat directly behind the slim partition separating the passenger cabin from the
cockpit. He glanced emotionlessly at his watch: they were dead on time. As
ever, this didn’t appear to be any source of particular satisfaction, though
Lex had nothing to compare it to. Thus far in her experience, Bett’s vaunted
displeasure at ever being behind schedule remained at quantum level.

Armand handed up Bett’s cases to the waiting Som, who stowed them, as
Armand climbed back aboard and closed the cabin door. Then Bett gave the
most cursory hand signal through the perspex window panel to the attentively
waiting Rebekah, and they were off again.

They were on the ground less than ninety seconds.

Nobody spoke, in conspicuous contrast to the relentless back-and-forth bull-
shit between Som and Armand on the flight to Aix. It was an observed silence,
and slightly tense for it. It was always like this when Bett took his place, like
a schoolroom hushed by the intimidating presence of a strict and respected
teacher. Nobody would speak until he did first. Once Bett set the tone, other
conversation could and would resume, if appropriate. Until he did speak,
however, it was impossible to know what that tone would be. He sat silently
as they ascended, impenetrable seriousness in his eyes as he stared out into
the night.

There had been no greetings, nor would there be any checks or queries
as to their preparations. Bett had no need to ask, for instance, whether you
had remembered to bring a particular item, or to reiterate any information.
Armand couldn’t have been less serious when he said he’d fallen asleep during
the briefing.

Bett stirred from his inscrutable absorption once they had reattained cruis-
ing altitude. He glanced around the cabin at their faces, all three meeting his
eye expectantly.

Alexis, boot up, please,’ he ordered, unsnapping his seat belt. He projected
his delivery just enough to carry over the ambient noise, which was louder
than on a passenger aircraft. Bett didn’t like to raise his voice; didn’t like ever
to consider it necessary. It was said that if you wanted people to listen, you
should speak softly. Bett simply assumed people were listening, and didn’t
expect to have to shout to get their attention.

Lex recalled Rebekah’s words over the intercom, echoing the standard in-
flight passenger protocols about laptops. On commercial airline flights, that
only applied during take-off and landing. She didn’t know about helicopters,
or therefore whether Rebekah’s warning was serious despite its humour, but
she sure as hell wasn’t going to refer it to Bett. Any sentence that began
‘But sir,’ was a bad start with the boss. He hated ‘whining’ as he called it,
presumably because it infringed upon his exclusive rights to all grumpiness
and complaining within the company.

She unbuckled her restraint and reached beneath the seat for her kit. Mean-
time, Bett knelt down and slid out one of his cases from the cargo rack, flip-
ping it slightly ajar. She didn’t see precisely what he had removed — a flat
plastic sleeve, possibly a CD — but did catch a glimpse of a row of identical gun
butts nestling cosily in protective plastic foam. A glance at her co-passengers
confirmed they were also sneaking a peak. Bett’s mission briefings were de-
tailed, but seldom comprehensive. There were almost always surprises.

The first one, this trip, was for her.

‘Get into the network at Marledog,’ he said.

‘Sure thing.’

Mid-air hacks were not part of the plan; in fact, she hadn’t been instructed
to do anything more than a covert recce of the Marledoq system prior to the
mission, so there was definitely no need to be doing this at fifteen thousand
feet. She guessed it must have been a CD-ROM he’d taken from the case, and
the contents of it were possibly something that had only latterly come into his
possession. Far more likely, however, was that he simply wanted to see her
dance. He liked to keep everybody on the edge of their game, always ready to
improvise and adapt at zero notice. There was no record in the company of
anyone ever complaining about being bored.

‘Rough skies ahead,’ Lex announced to no one in particular as she tapped
slowly at the keyboard and patiently scanned the screen.

‘What makes you say that?’ Bett asked. ‘You scanning Met office websites
or are you just .... channelling?’ He paused before the last word to give
it emphasis, then pronounced it with a clipped crispness. Bett’s scorn was
seldom far from breaking the surface, but nor was it ever less than elegant.

‘Latency,’ she explained. ‘Connection’s a bit sluggish. Electrical storms tend
to do that to these satellite modems.’

‘Oh, neato,’ ventured Som, gloomily. ‘I always wanted to be in a helicopter
during a lightning storm.’

‘Are you in yet?’ Bett enquired.

‘General network access,’ she replied, ‘but if you want me to start tampering
with surveillance and security systems, it’s gonna take—’

‘No, no,’ he interrupted. ‘I just want you to shut down one of the PCs in the
Security HQ. Can you do that?’

‘Shutting down a PC isn’t going to ...’ Lex stopped herself. ‘Yes, sir, she
corrected.

‘Good. I want you to script something that monitors when it gets rebooted.
Run a clock on it from the moment you close it down. I want a response time.’

‘You got it.’

Lex did as instructed, leaving the response-time clock running in a min-
imised panel towards the left edge of her screen. It would open fully and play
an alarm chime when someone at the Marledogq end turned the machine back
on. She looked up expectantly for Bett’s next instruction, but that appeared
to be all for now. He was staring out of the window again, though there was
nothing to look at but a few wispy snowflakes dancing across the beams of
the helicopter’s lights.

The chime sounded and the clock stopped after four minutes and eighteen
seconds.

‘Log that,’ Bett said. ‘And shut the same PC down again at exactly twenty
hundred hours.’

‘Yes, sir.’

The snow grew gradually heavier as the flight continued. There was no
lightning, but the wind was picking up and the chopper lurched and dipped
with increasing frequency. Lex felt a little nauseous, but wasn’t sure whether
it was as much to do with the motion as worry. This was only her second time
in a helicopter. The first had been eight years ago, a tourist jaunt over Nia-
gara Falls on a sunny July morning, in maximum visibility and nary a breath
of wind. Right now it was December, pitch black, there was a snowstorm
brewing and they were flying towards the Alps.

‘Looks like Lex was right about the weather, Armand said, looking a little
concerned.

‘If we don’t do this tonight, it’ll be at least two weeks before we can resched-
ule,’ Bett stated.

‘Only if you’re stuck on exposing—’

Tm stuck on all aspects of my plan, yes,’ Bett assured him, with the calm
of a man who seldom had to stress his point. ‘But if the weather continues
to deteriorate, it won’t be my intentions that prevail. That will be Rebekah’s
prerogative. In fact, ’'ll just have a word.’

Bett got up and opened the door to the cockpit, reaching with his other
hand into the pocket where he’d secreted whatever he removed from his case.
Through the window panel, Lex saw him talk to Rebekah, then hand her what
indeed turned out to be a silver disc. He returned to the passenger cabin and
took his seat once again, his visage familiarly betraying nothing.

He waited for the next sudden, stomach-knotting surge before responding
to Lex’s eager gaze.

‘Rebekah seems unconcerned,’ he said flatly. ‘The snow is getting pretty
heavy, but she’s not navigating by sight anyway.’

‘What about the turbulence?’ Lex asked.

‘Unconcerned,’ he repeated. ‘I believe her exact words were: “This isn’t
turbulence.” She then added something I didn’t precisely catch, but the gist of
it was that you’d know what turbulence was once we’re above the mountains.
Which should be any time now, I estimate,’ he concluded, fastening his seat
belt with precise delicacy.

Everyone else followed suit, knowing a cue from this bastard when they
saw one.

Mere moments passed before the chopper plummeted like a broken ele-
vator, Lex feeling as though her guts had remained at the previous altitude.
The descent stopped just as suddenly, the plunge bottoming out, rising and
banking into a swoop that seemed to increase their velocity by about fifty per
cent.

Those in the passenger cabin weren’t the only ones to get a cue. Bett
reached his hand behind his head and rapped on the window before grace-

fully flicking his wrist in a gesture that looked like the proverbial royal wave
until Lex realised his fingers were gripping an imaginary baton.

Music. Motherfucker. And a thousand bucks said Ride of the Valkyries.

The music began playing over the cabin speakers a few seconds later. It was
Song 2 by Blur. Lex was set to (privately) deride it as old man Bett’s idea of
cool, but quickly recognised his cold humour at work instead. It was probably
a mistake to think he didn’t know how overused it had been as a soundtrack to
such high-adrenaline moments. The man resonated disdain like other people
gave off body heat.

Som, being less sensitive to such subtleties, simply went for it, and joined
in the ‘woohoo’s as the chopper dipped and soared through the snow-flecked
blackness.

Bett sat expressionless throughout. Lex looked for a hint of a smile or twin-
kle in his eye to betray just how much the bastard must be enjoying this, but
there was nothing. The song played out without him even tapping his feet to
the rhythm.

Then came Ride of the Valkyries.

The snow lightened off over the final twenty minutes of the flight, down to
mere wisps by the time they landed, though it was close to a foot deep on the
ground. This proved of no concern to Rebekah, who expertly set down the
helicopter on a valley floor, some woodland to the north the only feature of
landscape close enough to be visible by what little moonlight broke between
the clouds. Lex saw no lights to indicate settlement, though as Nuno was
waiting for them behind the wheel of a high-sided container truck, there at
least had to be a road in the vicinity. At least, though quite possibly at most.

‘Thank you, Rebekah,’ Bett said, as the rotors slowed and their pilot joined
them on the white surface which was so permafrozen as to compact only a
couple of inches under the weight of their feet. Lex had estimated the depth
at about a foot, and the chopper’s wheels had sunk close to that much, but
it could easily be more. Bett sounded, as ever, like his gratitude, while not
begrudged, was measured out with microscopic precision to be exactly what
was due and appropriate, no less and no more. The sentiment gave off as
much warmth as a dying penguin’s last breath, but somehow inexplicably
avoided sounding insincere or even entirely graceless.

‘De nada, sir,’ she replied.

‘Oh, shit, man, it’s freezing,’ Som complained, while they got busy unload-
ing their flight cases.

‘Appropriate clothing will be supplied,’ Bett said, signalling to Nuno to bring
the truck closer now that the chopper’s engines had powered down.

‘You are a god,’ Som told him, shivering. ‘People don’t say that enough.’

‘No,’ Bett reflected, ‘they don’t.’

Rebekah pulled off her helmet and placed it on her seat inside the cockpit,
replacing it with an elasticated fleece cap. Lex approached, flight case in hand
as she shut the door.

‘Thanks for the ride,’ Lex offered with a smile.

‘Hope it wasn’t too rough. Helicopters aren’t really my forte.’

‘You gotta be kidding. Not your forte? That was some serious flying.’

It’s all in the technology these days. There’s a joke among the civil flyers
that future crews will comprise a single pilot and a dog. The pilot’s job will
be to watch all the computers, and the dog’s will be to bite the pilot if he
attempts to touch anything.’

Civil flyers, Lex thought. As in what Rebekah was not.

‘That’s cute,’ she said. ‘But way too modest. You were hot-dogging up there,
and on Bett’s orders too, I’m guessing.’

‘No comment,’ she replied, failing to conceal a smile.

‘That’s a ten-four if ever I heard one. Where’d you learn to fly like that?’

Definitely no comment.’

Nuno cautiously brought the truck towards the chopper, the vehicle bobbing
and swaying as its tyres traversed uneven terrain beneath the snow. Lex sup-
pressed a smile at the sight of the tall Catalan in this unfamiliar environment,
his beloved dark locks all tucked out of sight beneath a tight black ski-hat.
She couldn’t wait to see how that striding gait of his coped with the underfoot
conditions either.

He veered the truck right as he drew close, allowing him to turn in a wide,
careful arc, presenting the rear of the container towards the new arrivals.
Bett hopped on to the tailgate and flipped a lever, causing the double doors
to open and releasing a heavy steel ramp that slid down to meet the snow.
Lex felt it bite into the ground with a shudder a split-second after the overea-
ger (and possibly borderline hypothermic) Som skipped backwards out of its
way. Nuno trudged cautiously and awkwardly around to the rear and climbed
inside behind the boss.

Bett emerged shortly with an armful of clothing, which he tossed to Som.
From the flail of sleeves and legs, Lex guessed two fine fleece tops and two
pairs of trousers.

‘Get these on. That goes for everybody: two layers each. There’s a box
inside with various sizes. And if you’re wearing anything made of cotton, lose
it before you put these on.’

Som wasn’t about to ask Bett why — you just didn’t do that — but his face
betrayed a reluctance to shed any of the clothes he already had without a
damn good reason.

‘Cotton equals death,’ Lex told him. ‘Cotton holds moisture against the skin
and prevents you warming yourself. Trust me, I’m Canadian.’

‘Are we talking, like, even my Y-fronts here?’

Lex herself had opted for all-synthetic undergarments, but wasn’t sure just
how much outdoor work was going to figure on the agenda. She guessed not
enough for it to matter if Som’s nads got a little chilly. The temptation to
lay it on thick was enormous, leavened slightly by the prospect of seeing his
scrawny little goose-pimpled butt in the flesh. She settled for: ‘That’s entirely
up to you.’

Jeez. Just how long are we going to be out in the snow? How far is this
place?’

‘It’s about five miles,’ Nuno told him.

Just get the fleeces on, Somboon,’ Bett instructed. ‘And if you're still cold,
T’ve got another layer for you here.’

Bett kicked a fibreglass trunk forward across the floor of the truck and
flipped open its lid. Kevlar vests. For all the protection they offered, they
were nonetheless seldom a reassuring sight.

‘Body armour?’ Som asked. ‘I thought this place was all about non-lethal
enforcement technology.’

‘If it was a bakery, would you expect the guards to be armed only with
custard pies?’ Bett asked, with what passed in his case for good humour. ‘The
parent company also develops laser-guided missiles, so you'll be pleased to
know the security personnel are issued with standard Beretta nine-millimetre
handguns and none of Industries Phobos’ hallmarked product.’

‘Don’t suppose there’s any Kevlar balaclavas in there?’ Lex ventured. ‘These
vests aren’t so effective if you get shot in the face.’

Tll be extremely surprised if any of these people manage to get a single shot
off against us,’ Bett stated with absolute certainty.

‘If it’s all the same to you, sir, would you mind if I borrowed Rebekah’s crash
helmet?’ Lex said, only half joking.

‘You can’t,’ Nuno told her. ‘It would get in the way of your night-sight.’

Night-sights. Of course. One of the reasons — though far from the main
one — why Bett was so confident of not getting shot at.

1 eat lots of carrots,’ she protested. ‘I’d prefer the helmet.’

Nuno threw her a pair of fleece trousers and a top, both black. ‘Get dressed,
Lex,’ he said.

Once everyone was suited and bullet-proofed, Bett reached for one of the
cases he’d brought from Aix. He handed everyone a pistol and two mags. They
each slapped one clip into the breech and the spare to their utility harness. It
didn’t look like a lot of ammo.

‘Will this be enough?’ Rebekah asked.

Not if you miss,’ Bett replied. ‘And on that note, let me just stress that I
don’t want any of you staying your trigger hand with thoughts of the poor
guard’s wife and kids tragically impoverished at Christmas. We’ve got a job to
do and so have they. The one who does it best doesn’t need to worry about
his or her conscience.’

Lex checked the action on her weapon. She didn’t need this particular pep
talk. These guys were packing Beretta nine-mills: that was all the encourage-
ment her trigger hand needed.

Som distributed earpieces and Pin-Mics that attached snugly and nearly
invisibly to the inside of their fleece collars. You pressed down on them to
transmit, which was a big improvement on those goddamn sub-vocal things
that broadcast every last unwitting word you happened to utter. Once they
were fitted, Nuno began handing out night-sights. Gadget-geek Som almost
bit off Nuno’s hand to get his first.

‘These the new LS-24s?’ he asked excitedly.

‘Si.’

‘I don’t see what’s to get excited about,’ Lex said. ‘Everything looks like
green shadows and white blobs through these things anyway.’

‘These have a built-in laser range-finder,’ Som told her, his enthusiasm undi-
minished by her failure to share it.

‘What’s a range-finder?’ she asked.

‘It tells you the distance to the object you’re looking at,’ Som explained.
‘Lets you know whether the white blob you can see is a tree half a mile away
or a boulder ten feet away.’

‘Long as the white blob’s not a guy holding a gun, what does it matter?’

‘Tt’ll matter when you're approaching the boulder on a snow-bike at a hun-
dred kilometres per hour,’ Nuno stated.

‘We’ve got snowbikes?’ asked Som, who really was going to regret the mois-
ture retention properties of his cotton underwear if his excitement level got
any higher.

‘MX Z-REVs. What do you think I needed such a big truck for?’

‘Too cool.’

The new toys were dragged from within the lorry on pallets and slid care-
fully down the ramp on to the snow. They looked state-of-the-art and ex-
pensive, the way Bett liked it. Basic instruction was given, accompanied by
some vocal surprise that the resident Canadian and ‘expert in all things win-
try’ should never have ridden a skidoo before. She admitted that she hadn’t
skied before either, politely explaining that no amount of snow could make
eastern Ontario a downhill winter sports paradise due to the place being as
flat as a pool table. To this she added that if you gave her a pair of skates

and a hockey stick, she’d kick all their asses, but by that point Bett was calling
them to order with the outfit’s most peremptory command.

‘A-fag, children. A-fag.’

It was time to get serious.

They rode in darkness. The ZX Rev-Ups, or whatever Nuno had called
them, were fitted with powerful headlights, but such luminosity was ‘contra-
indicated’, as Bett put it with understated technicality, when attempting to
approach undetected. The noise, he claimed, would be less of a concern as
they’d be pulling up a quarter of a mile short, and in darkness no one would
be able to determine whether the sound wasn’t motorbikes on the nearby road
through the valley. ‘That’s if anyone’s listening,’ he added.

It was pretty easy, even if viewing by infrared made the sense of velocity
seem all the greater. Like their aquatic equivalent, it was hard to imagine a
lot of people owning one of these for everyday use. Lex guessed the majority
of sales of such machines were for hiring out to tourists, who didn’t want to
spend a day and a half learning how the thing worked. They just wanted to
push a button, twist a handlegrip and go. She got a real fright the first time
the sled fully left the ground (range-finder or no, her night-goggles failed to
distinguish whether the white blobs of her colleagues in front were gliding on
snow or air), but after a couple more such bumps it became a real rush. Her
only concern was for her laptop, stowed in a compartment beneath her seat,
but with the others setting an unrelenting pace there was no option to ease
off. She was already in the rear of the group, trailing even Armand who was
dragging a cargo sled behind him. They had left a lot of kit back at the truck,
Bett changing arrangements at the last minute as usual, so Lex wasn’t sure
what the cargo sled was actually transporting, but it was having far less of a
braking effect than her caution.

Before folding her laptop closed, she had noted and reported that there was
still no response from the PC she’d shut down back at eight o’clock. Bett had
nodded dismissively in response, like he always did when you were telling
him something he already knew.

They pulled up, as specified, about a quarter of a mile short of the com-
pound, dimly lit against the foot of the mountain by the glow from a few
overhead lamps. There were maybe a dozen cars lined up in a tight grid,
close to where a counterbalanced barrier and a wooden hut blocked access
from the snow-dusted road. The buildings were low-rise and cheap-looking:
windowless warehouses, a prefab site office with darkened wire-mesh win-
dows, chemical toilets, an electrical sub-station. Nothing to see here, they
were saying to any passers-by. The compound was delineated by a wire-mesh
fence, about two metres high. Lex could see a couple of white blobs on top of

the wire that she plausibly estimated to be sparrow-sized, meaning it wasn’t
electrified. Nothing else in her sights appeared to be giving off much heat,
apart from the sub-station.

They parked their bikes at the foot of a small undulation, barely a bump
on the landscape, but enough to render the vehicles invisible from any range
beyond ten yards the other side of it. A heat signature belatedly ambled into
view: a guard on patrol, the sight of which prompted Lex to crouch until she
noticed that she was the only one doing it.

‘Have a look without your night-sight,’ Armand reassured her. She did. The
compound became little more than glow and shadow. Behind her there was
blackness. ‘That’s what he sees.”

‘Gather your goods and chattels,’ Bett instructed, and they each unloaded
what was beneath their saddles. Armand, she noticed, unloaded nothing from
the cargo sled. Lex’s batbelt had a specially designed velcro-fastening cradle
for her laptop, holding it out of the way, across her back. This meant she
was less encumbered by it when moving, but it required detaching the utility
harness altogether when strapping the PC in or taking it out, unless someone
else was there to help. She was asking for just such assistance when Bett told
her to stick the machine back in her skidoo.

‘We won't be requiring any remote access from here on in. If necessary, you
can grab a terminal directly. You do have your tools on removable storage.’

This last was most definitely a statement, not a question. Indeed, she did
have the code she needed on a USB stick, but it wasn’t what was on her laptop
that she was worried about missing. It was the two hundred gigs of free space
on the hard drive. Removable storage was the issue, and whether she’d have
room to store what she intended to remove.

Bett set the pace. They advanced slowly, strung out in a wide line, stopping
two hundred metres from the fence, or 198.678m according to the range-
finder. All but Som got down and lay prostrate, leaning up on elbows to
look ahead. Gadget Geek was about to deploy. He placed an aluminium tube
down in front of him on the snow, then drew a modified grenade launcher
from a quiver across his back. Resting on one knee, he slid the top half of
the tube away from the base, inside which nestled six of his self-designed and
-constructed Flying Eyeballs. He loaded four, one by one, into the breech and
levelled the weapon to his shoulder. Meanwhile, his colleagues were snapping
open hand-held LCD monitors, each about the size of a compact makeup mir-
ror. The Flying Eyeballs, as he had explained (at length, in detail and on an
unwearied number of occasions), were a means of creating an instant, covert
CCTV system without setting foot in the subject area. They consisted of a tiny
digital camera, crucially containing no moving parts, and a lens constructed
from the same synthetic material as prescription contacts. Crucially, because

the device had to withstand being fired several hundred metres through the air
by a grenade launcher, plus the effects of rapid deceleration associated with
being slammed into its target surface at the end of this flight. For analogue
devices and glass lenses, this sort of treatment was largely contra-indicated,
to use one of Bett’s favoured terms. It wasn’t highly recommended for dig-
ital ones either, to be fair, and not all of them survived the trip. However,
their chances were greatly improved by the round rubber housing that gave
rise to the Eyeball part of their name, and more so by being suspended in a
thick, gloopy, adhesive resin inside a fragile outer shell. The shell shattered
on impact, releasing the resin, which dried instantly on contact with air, theo-
retically securing the rubber eyeball where it landed, but in practice working
better on sloped roofs than plumb walls. The camera was weighted and bal-
anced within the Eyeball so that it would tilt and right itself by gravity up to
forty degrees, the lens protected from the resin by a tube-shaped plug that
could be popped off by remote once the device was in place. The only thing
Som had so far been able to do nothing about was the whole thing hitting a
wall or roof lens-side first, which was why he always brought at least a dozen.

He fired off three of the four he’d loaded, readjusting his weight and po-
sition as he aimed at different potential vantage points. Then he scuttled
around to the side of the compound and began again. Lex checked her LCD,
toggling through the views. A lucky night: only one lens-to-wall, one DOA
and two nestled on rooftops beneath four inches of snow. Six shots result-
ing in two functioning cams, giving a pretty good triangulation on the main
paths through the compound. There’d been times when Som had cracked off
a full complement of those things and they’d still ended up going in blind.
She deleted the useless frequencies and toggled between the two good ones.
They had views of most doorways, the sub-station and the guardpost at the
road barrier.

Just one guard so far, said Nuno’s voice in her earpiece. ‘We don’t have an
angle into the sentry box.’

Tvll be manned,’ Armand ventured. ‘It’s freezing. If his boss wasn’t in the
box, don’t you think that guy would be in there warming his toes?’

Lex watched the grey figure on her monitor walking slowly and shiftlessly,
stamping his feet every so often, bored and cold.

‘True enough, Armand,’ agreed Bett. Assume a count of two. We'll take
them separately but simultaneously. Nuno, Alexis, you take ...’

Bett cut himself off in response to the guard suddenly stopping in his tracks,
evidently having heard something. He turned on his heel and began running
towards the sentry box.

‘Fuck, we’ve been made,’ Rebekah said urgently, unholstering her gun.

‘At ease, my dear,’ Bett chided, looking at his monitor. Lex couldn’t make

out what was on his LCD, but it wasn’t the same thing she was looking at;
there was lots of colour, mainly green, as opposed to grey shadows and snow.
‘Quite the contrary, I'd wager.’

The guard disappeared into the hut, from which no alarms sounded, no
lights flashed, and indeed from which he did not re-emerge.

‘Nuno, Alexis,’ Bett said, by way of command.

Lex drew her pistol and flicked off the safety, then back on, then back off.
It was an obsessive-compulsive habit, like trying the doorhandle after locking
her car, and she’d shown no sign of shaking it, no matter how many times
she’d used various firearms. When you were effectively entrusting your life to
a device, you had to be damn sure it was functioning.

The snow silenced their footsteps, only the lightest crunch audible as their
boots sank gently into the unspoiled surface. As Lex neared the hut, she
discovered both that the guards wouldn’t have heard a thing anyway, and
why Bett was unworried by the sentry’s dash to cover. She heard the sound of
a crowd and the excited voice of a commentator. They were watching soccer
on TV, and Bett had known not only that much, but presumably also which
game; that’s what he was tuned in to on his LCD. A goal had been scored, and
one guard had relayed this to the other — which was why he came running.

They took position side by side, a few feet from the doorway, guns each held
in two hands. The commentator’s tones got near-hysterical, accompanied by
angry and then happy/excited shouts from the two marks. Lex looked to Nuno
for the green light, but he took a hand off his weapon and clenched his fist to
signal hold. ‘Penalty,’ he whispered.

There was quiet from the crowd, a collective drawing in of breath. She and
Nuno joined it.

‘Sl vous plait, mon Dieu,’ one guard’s voice implored.

‘Ne manquez pas, ne manquez pas,’ pleaded the other.

Nuno smiled and gave the signal.

Ne manquez pas. Don’t miss.

They didn’t.

Lex and Nuno lay the bodies next to each other on the floor of the hut and
patted them down. She found what she was after in a hip pocket, Nuno in
a zippered breast-pouch. Swipecards, each with a photo ID thumbnail in the
bottom left-hand corner. Low-level security clearance, no doubt, but it would
be enough for now.

She checked her LCD, toggling between the two views. No activity from any
doorways, no further sign of life.

‘Area secure,’ she announced. ‘Clear to proceed.’

Nuno sprung the mags from the guards’ handguns, sliding them into slots
on his harness.

‘This pair won't be needing them any longer,’ he said.

The rest of the team caught up soon after, advancing at a brisk walking
pace.

‘Which building’s the way in?’ Rebekah asked.

‘We don’t know,’ Lex told her. ‘We’re only working from information in the
public domain.’

‘Yeah, Lex, but I thought when the member of the public happens to be you,
the domain gets pretty wide.’

‘Ordinarily, sure, but on this job...’

‘Not in the parameters,’ Rebekah finished, nodding.

‘There are, I would estimate, at least two, and possibly three, entrances,’
Bett said. ‘Two cards, two teams. Knock, knock.’

Rebekah went with Lex, Armand with Nuno. They bypassed the prefab
site-office and the chemical toilet as these had only conventional locks, mak-
ing instead for the low-rise warehouses. Each pair approached, guns drawn,
keeping an eye on their counterparts to ensure that they acted simultaneously.
Lex swiped the card and threw the door open, Rebekah moving quickly inside
and levelling her weapon at shoulder height.

The interior was in darkness. Lex found a light switch and flicked it on,
revealing a room full of stationery supplies, stocked neatly in six columns
of shelves. They were staggered to allow a narrow channel between each,
apart from between the fifth and sixth, where there was a wider avenue. She
walked along and looked down it. At the end, a few yards short of where
the rear wall ran across the rest of the building, there stood two featureless
aluminium doors, a swipe slot to their left. Another storey’s worth of steel
ascended to the ceiling, presumably housing the pulley.

‘One entrance located,’ she reported. ‘And we’re cool for Post-its too. How
about you guys?’

‘Nada,’ Nuno replied. ‘Canteen supplies, I think. Tinned soup. Hey, these
guys really like lentil and bacon. Moving out.’

‘Hold your position, Nuno,’ Bett interrupted. ‘Any confectionery?’

There was a pause.

‘Yeah, that’s a positive on the confectionery.’

‘Snickers?’

‘Okay, let’s see .... Mars, Twix ... Snickers. Affirmative.’

‘Two please, there’s a good chap.’

‘Ah, sir, I think that would count as stealing.’

‘There’s a good chap,’ Bett repeated pointedly.

‘Yes, sir.’

Som and Bett arrived at the stationery warehouse as Nuno and Armand
continued their search. Bett was chewing on one of the appropriated choco-

late bars, his face expressionless despite a glow of juvenile satisfaction. If it
was giving him pleasure, he was trying to keep that to himself, just like the
chocolate.

Lex swiped the card to part the lift doors, holding them open while Som got
to work. He had the control panel out in seconds and began expertly stripping
wires, splitting and splicing with contacts from one of his gizmos, which he
secured to the inside of the panel before replacing it.

‘You're cool now,’ he told Lex. She stepped away from the doors, which
remained open. Som then attached another Eyeball — of the non-flying vari-
ety — to the rear interior of the car, this time a remote-controlled, zoom-lens,
multi-pivoting device.

‘Let’s take a peek,’ he said, pressing a button on the grotesquely modified
gamepad he used as a multi-functioning remote control. The lift doors closed
and a deep whine emitted from the housing above. Lex toggled to the newly
available channel on her LCD. It showed two closed doors, and it showed
them for a hell of a long time.

‘Some depth,’ Rebekah observed. ‘What was this place, a mine?’

‘Nuclear shelter,’ Bett informed her. ‘And before that, once upon a time, a
secret Allied operations HQ.’

The whine stopped and the doors opened, revealing a reception area with
a desk, a row of bucket seats along one wall, a water cooler against another
and two fire doors dead ahead. The lights were on, but there was no sign of
human activity. Som twiddled a hat switch, panning right a little and zooming
in towards the ceiling. There was a CCTV camera staring back.

‘Is that going to be a problem?’ Lex asked.

‘Only if someone’s watching it,’ Bett answered. ‘But let’s assess all our op-
tions first.’

Som brought the lift back, undoing his handiwork and retrieving his gadgets
with the same speedy but unhurried efficiency as he had deployed them. As
he was reattaching the last of his hardware to his harness, Nuno’s voice played
across all their earpieces.

‘Second elevator located. Last warehouse on the right-hand side, closest to
the mountain.’

‘Received,’ Bett acknowledged. ‘And what the bloody hell kept you?’

‘Thorough reconnaissance, sir,’ Nuno replied. ‘It took us a while to find the
lift, but we now know where these people keep their toilet-roll supplies, so if
we really want to hurt them, or this turns into, like, a siege...’

‘At ease, Nuno.’

Nuno had been part of the outfit longer than anyone bar Armand. Lex used
to wonder how many McDonald’s long-service stars you had to have amassed
before you could talk back to the boss like that, but had learned in time that

it was more to do with experience telling you when you could best try your
luck. Bett had no favourites and no formal hierarchy beyond the very simple
one by which he ruled with supreme authority.

Som repeated his surveillance operation on the other lift, intended for trans-
porting freight going by its greater size, grubbier appearance and wider ap-
proach area. The warehouse Nuno called them to had a large loading bay at
the front, served by two padlocked vertical roller doors, each around four me-
tres wide, with the card-op entrance separate, three or four yards to the right.
Inside there was a lot more space than housed the personnel lift, though there
were supplies on shelves around three walls. Much of it appeared to be for
general site maintenance — paint, varnish, detergent, lightbulbs, tools — plus,
as reported, enough toilet paper to keep them going through a nuclear winter.

They checked their LCDs as Som sent the freight elevator grinding slowly
down into the earth. It took even longer than the personnel lift, though most
probably because the mechanism was simply slower.

‘Must have been some deal to carve this place out,’ Rebekah observed, echo-
ing Lex’s slightly discomfited awe at the subterranean scale.

‘A lot of the caverns and tunnels were natural,’ Bett said. ‘Magma chambers,
lava flows.’

Som beamed, his cheeks aglow.

‘What?’ Bett asked, with the weary sigh of one who knows he won’t be
impressed by the answer.

‘You’ve made him very happy,’ Armand offered.

Yes, Lex thought. And they weren’t short of an evil genius either, though no
one was going to say as much.

Delighted to be of service,’ the evil genius muttered, sounding considerably
less so.

Lex’s screen remained black, despite the mechanism having quit its
laboured grinding a few seconds back.

‘Open the lift doors, Som,’ Nuno prompted.

‘They are open,’ Bett answered. ‘There’s no lights on in the freight bay.
Which makes the camera issue moot, wouldn’t you agree?’

‘Unless they’ve an infrared,’ Som suggested. Bett rolled his eyes to indicate
how likely he considered this.

‘Well, on the outside chance that someone has gone to the bother of moni-
toring the camera they’ve got overlooking reception, I think it would be polite
to dress for the occasion. Armand, Somboon, retrieve the security guards’
jackets from the guard-post and go in through the main lift. Keep your heads
down and remember to bin the uniforms once you're past the camera. If I
shoot either of you, I’d like to mean it. The rest of us will take the tradesman’s
entrance.’

eee

No one spoke as the lift descended, the four of them standing with weapons
drawn. Lex felt a cold, sweaty nervousness, the like of which she hadn’t expe-
rienced on a job since the earliest days. No matter how many times she’d gone
into situations like this, she’d never lost that feeling of being hyper-energised,
like all of her senses were at a level normal life had never asked of them. Time
felt both accelerated and suspended, as though standard relativity could not
be resumed until events were at a close and this mode was once again set to
zero. However, this gnarling, dull fear was something different, a chill terror
long-since banished by experience but back tonight, ready to dog her every
step. She knew why, and it was nothing to do with those Berettas.

She flipped down her night goggles as the lift doors ground open, infrared
describing the room to her in subtle differences of tone and texture, all of
it white on green. Shelves, crates, pallet-trolleys and a wide, windowless
double door. They stepped forward slowly, Nuno finding his way first to a light
switch. He flicked it, turning on strip lighting suspended from a surprisingly
high ceiling above. Lex advanced to the card lock and looked to Bett.

Bett signalled to hold, pressing his other hand to his collar-mike.

‘Status,’ he said quietly.

There was no response. Too much rock. They’d be able to hear Som and
Armand again once the pair were down inside the complex.

‘Status,’ Bett repeated several times, at intervals of thirty seconds.

‘Status is we are all troglodytes now,’ said Armand’s voice at last.

Acknowledged. We are holding position in the freight bay. Preparing to
deploy. Any hostiles?’

‘Only Somboon. Ah... okay, I’ve got a layout schematic from behind the
reception desk. Freight bay is on the second level, which puts Security HQ
upstairs from where you are now, downstairs from us. Back-up generator and
power control is in the lowest level. You still want us to...?

‘Proceed with assigned tasks. Remember to smile if you pass us on the
stairs. Oh, and Armand, mess?’

‘No, everything is very clinical-looking. Som’s delighted, I can safely say.’

‘No, I meant mess as in canteen, as in dining area,’ Bett clarified with barely
contained disquiet.

‘Oh, pardon. Oui. Upper level.’

‘Thank you,’ Bett said, with all the appreciation one might expect in ad-
dressing a stone that has finally yielded 0.01 millilitres of blood.

Bett gave the signal and Lex opened the double door, more strip light imme-
diately spilling into the freight bay from the wide corridor outside. There were
doorways along either wall, as well as tributary corridors and a T-junction vis-
ible at the far end.

Bett pulled a fire-exit schematic from the wall and they all briefly examined
it before moving out. Lex dallied a little, allowing Nuno and Rebekah to head
off first, the pair of them charged with locating the staff dining area. She
was hoping she could drop behind Bett also, in order to check on something
unnoticed, but she had no such luck. Bett ushered her onwards in front of
him, making it impossible now to drop back without it being conspicuous. He
would be accompanying her in locking down the Security HQ, so she knew
her window would be tight, meaning she had to be ready to act when — if -
an opportunity presented itself.

The four of them walked briskly on soft feet, proceeding down the corridor
to the end, where they turned right towards where the fire plan had indicated
the main staircase to lie. Nuno went a few paces ahead of the rest, stopping
short of the final stairs to extend a mirror into the corridor on a telescopic
handle. He checked the view in both directions, then gave the signal to ad-
vance. They split into their pre-assigned pairings at the top, approaching each
bend silently and with guns at the ready.

Lex and Bett found themselves at one end of another long corridor, more
doors and passages leading off along the puce-painted walls. The decor was
cleanly and uniformly slapped on to bolted gypsum panels, making it impos-
sible to distinguish where the facade was covering mere partitions or live rock
on the reverse. A grid of white tiles above indicated a suspended ceiling,
housing vents, pipes and cables. It wasn’t much different to a corridor in any
modern hospital or school, she thought, but there was something about the
way it swallowed sound, far more than any lack of a view, that emphasised
the inescapable isolation of the place. Som, she was sure, wouldn’t be dis-
appointed, and like her would be regretting that they couldn’t freely explore
every last bend of this labyrinthine oubliette.

The thought reminded her of what else her itinerary didn’t officially have
a space for. They took another corner, observing cover protocol, though she
could tell Bett was going through the motions for the sake of good practice.
This next passageway took them past banks of glass on either side, allowing
views into darkened laboratories, in which only the shapes of computer moni-
tors were distinct. She stopped by a door and swiped the card, figuring blatant
was less suspicious than furtive. It remained locked.

She had her answer prepared should Bett enquire why she had done it: she
was checking to see what level of security access was on the cards they'd lifted
from the feckless gumbies topside. Bett didn’t ask. His lack of enquiry made
the ensuing silence seem an intolerable vacuum, which meant she had to force
herself not to guiltily volunteer her explanation.

She felt like she was scattering pointers the whole time, and that he must
be seeing her guilty intentions in widescreen. That was merely fear. She had

to hold her nerve. Truth was, she had no idea whether Bett was so difficult to
keep a secret from; this was just the first time she’d tried.

Bett signalled to move swiftly around the next corner. They’d been able to
see into the adjoining passageway through a bank of windows perpendicular
to the ones they were passing, but Lex suspected Bett was getting fed up
playing it by his own book.

‘We could be waltzing through here naked, playing trombones,’ he said,
confirming as much.

‘Permission to discount that image, sir.’

‘Granted. Ah, here we are. At last.’

Lex skipped ahead and took position against the wall outside the Security
HQ doors, one of which was wedged open. She waited for Bett to do like-
wise, but instead he marched past her and straight on in, miming playing a
trombone as he did so.

Lex followed him into the room, a split-level office with a bank of CCTV
monitors along one wall of the upper area, and a row of computers facing the
same direction on the lower tier. Identical screen savers played on all but one
of them, depicting a three-dimensional animation of the Deimos logo. The odd
one out was blank, being the PC Lex had shut down at eight o’clock, meaning
no one had been in here since. She looked at her watch. It read 21:43. The
CCTV cameras all looked across empty corridors, apart from those that were
looking at complete blackness in rooms where the lights remained off. Ben
sat down at the control suite and brought up some different views. More cor-
ridors, more blackness, and one ‘Error: Camera Offline, Lev1/seceNW3/cam1’.

‘Also known as the mess, I’d wager,’ he remarked drily.

The strip lights overhead flickered briefly as she took a seat at one of the
machines.

‘Smooth,’ Bett noted approvingly. He meant the near-seamless switch to
auxiliary power just effected somewhere below them by Som and Armand. If
the main power went down, there was an average three-second delay before
the back-up systems kicked in, which would be enough to put even this sorry
mob on alert that something was amiss. Their trick was to bring the auxiliary
power online first and make the transfer before killing the main grid.

‘Very,’ Lex agreed. It hadn’t even rebooted any of the PCs, which made
a change. The corollary of Murphy’s Law dictated that she wasn’t midway
through an elaborate script the one time a power switch didn’t crash the com-
puters.

Lex restarted the blank one, then glided in her chair along the edge of the
long desk, nudging mice to bring the rest of the screens back to life.

‘ want the duty roster for tonight, Alexis,’ Bett announced, looking at his
watch. ‘And we're going to need it in approximately two minutes plus injury

time.’

‘Yes, sir, she answered with genuine enthusiasm, though not for Bett’s re-
quest. The machines all had users logged on so that if anyone checked the
records it would look like they’d been working — and one of them had high-
level security clearance. The roster was located in seconds. There was no
need to share this with Bett quite yet, however, so she had a brief window
of plausible hacking time while she ostensibly ‘retrieved’ his request. Instead,
she went straight to the access setting and killed the maglocks on all the secu-
rity doors, then jacked in her USB stick and ran a probe through the network
in search of her target.

‘Sir, it’s Nuno,’ whispered a voice in one ear. ‘We have recce’d the mess.
Six guards and three, I think, lab techs. One plasma screen, one Champions
League match in progress, two cases Amstel beer. Nice to see them getting
into the spirit with a named sponsor. Are we good to go?’

‘This is Armand. We are good to go, awaiting command.’

‘The order is on your command, Nuno,’ Bett advised. ‘But let’s give them
until the final whistle. Unfair not to let them find out how it ends.’

‘Youre all heart, sir. Too kind sometimes.’

‘I know. Hang on, how many did you say? Nine?’

‘I can’t be sure. Using the mirror, I couldn’t see all angles. But nine at least.’

Lex knew what he was thinking. It was Rebekah’s first mission.

She held her breath. Opportunity might be about to knock if Bett opted to
go help out.

‘Could do with another gun to be on the safe side,’ he said. Oh please, oh
please. Alexis, you got that roster yet?’

Shit.

She was past the point of no return regards sneaking around behind his
back, but she wasn’t ready to lie to his face yet. Especially not when it was
lying about a small thing that was most suspicious if you got rumbled.

‘Printing it now, sir’

He looked it over, nodding, as it wafted from the printer.

‘Get upstairs to the mess. And don’t stop to smell the roses. Go.’

Damn it.

She grabbed the memory stick from the USB port as she got up, daring a
glance at Bett to see whether he had noted this. He wasn’t watching, still
toggling through security cameras. What was he looking for?

Injury time, he’d said. He was referring to the end of the soccer game the
guards were watching, but it was both literal and metaphorical in this in-
stance. ‘Injury time’ was the term they used when they were tight up against
the clock but didn’t know exactly how long they had left. No one knew pre-
cisely when the referee would blow the final whistle.

Lex charged up a staircase with greater concern for haste than stealth, then
found herself barrelling down more corridors, Nuno giving her a running com-
mentary of directions as she went.

You are in a maze of twisty little passages, all alike, she thought, wryly.
Hacker-speak for lost and confused, recalling a phrase from early, text-only
adventure games.

Nuno warned her she was getting close, so she traversed the last corridor
silently, the sound of the soccer game and accompanying anxious shouts at
the TV spilling from the nearby mess. Nuno and Rebekah were crouched on
the near side, weapons ready.

Lex approached the doorway and gestured with her mirror to indicate that
she was taking a look for herself. She could go sight unseen into a tiny hut
with two guys in it, but nine targets in a large room meant she needed a first-
hand take on the layout. The plasma screen was against the right-hand wall
at ninety degrees to the corridor, the targets sitting around in two rows: one
on aluminium chairs, the other behind, and more elevated on tables. Unused
chairs had jackets thrown over them, holstered guns resting on other table
tops next to the beer crates. It was midweek party night. On the far wall,
at the end nearer the TV, was a long panel of sliding shutters. The assem-
bly sounded increasingly anxious, calling encouragement in near-despairing
tones. Time was running out, in more ways than they knew.

Lex withdrew and took her place alongside her companions. Nuno got to
his feet.

‘On my command,’ he whispered, standing up.

Lex gestured to hold.

‘Did you see those shutters?’ she asked.

‘We tried,’ Nuno replied. ‘No access.’

‘Not any more,’ she assured him.

‘Okay, cool. Let’s go.’

Thirty seconds later they were in position inside the kitchen, standing be-
hind the canteen’s serving hatch.

‘Stand by, Armand,’ Nuno ordered, pulling down his night goggles. Lex and
Rebekah followed suit.

‘Standing by,’ came the response.

Three whistles sounded from the other side of the sliding shutters, accom-
panied by cries of deep disappointment.

Time to put them out of their misery.

‘Go.’

There was no panic when the lights went out, which was helpful. There
were groans and ironic cheers in response, suggesting it was a far from un-
precedented occurrence, and a remark bemoaning that the power hadn’t gone

out earlier and ‘spared us watching that bunch of clowns tonight’. Amid this
hubbub, no one much noticed the sound of the shutters being opened.

They all stayed still, probably in accordance with a safety protocol, and
waited expectantly for the back-up system to restore the light. Down here, the
darkness was total. It was pretty spooky to be standing so close (3.278 metres,
according to the range-finder) to people, to be looking at them, levelling guns
at them, yet to remain utterly invisible to them. Once you got over the ghostly
feeling of disconnection, the sense of power was enormous.

Nuno nodded, and in less than three seconds, every man in the room was
down. Rebekah, as it turned out, found her marks flawlessly. Theoretically
it was no great shakes to hit blind, unmoving targets from close range, but
when it came to the moment and those targets were live flesh, anyone might
choke the first time. No one could predict it for sure, not even Bett, which
was why he’d sent Lex as back-up.

Lighting was restored on Nuno’s order. They angled up their night-sights
and climbed over the counter into the mess.

‘I want a body count,’ Bett ordered redundantly in their earpieces.

The total verified Nuno’s estimate: six guards, three other staff. He relayed
the news to Bett with a concealed satisfaction his boss would have been proud
of.

‘There should be ten,’ his boss informed them all, cutting it short. According
to the duty roster, we’re one lab-rat light. I’m checking the cameras, but no
dice so far’

‘Shall I cut the power again?’ Armand asked.

‘No, that’ll only make him scurry. We’re looking for a labgeek who’s neither
interested in football nor beer. He'll most likely be happily back over his
Bunsen burner now that the power’s been restored. Nuno, Rebekah, Alexis,
take a floor each and find him. Armand, Som, back to the script.’

Nuno sighed, but Lex didn’t share his disappointment. This was the chance
she was hoping for: free rein to wander, nobody on her shoulder.

Tl take the bottom level,’ she volunteered, before Nuno could send her
elsewhere. The brief search time she’d had upstairs before Bett dispatched
her on gun duty had been sufficient to locate which lab she needed, though
not enough to crack the security, otherwise she could have downloaded the
files over the network.

‘Okay,’ he agreed. ‘Rebekah, you take this level, I'll go...’

Nuno was interrupted by the sound of an alarm, its electronic pulsing re-
verberating around every corridor in the complex.

‘Sounds like our lab-geek’s more spooked than Bett thought,’ Rebekah ob-
served.

‘Yeah,’ agreed Nuno. He pinched his collar-mike. ‘Maybe we should rethink
the lights,’ he suggested.

‘That’s a negative,’ Bett replied. Armand and Som have work.’

Back to the script, Lex thought. She headed out into the corridor and down
the nearest stairwell, the noise bouncing around the place in an incessant
blare. Not highly conducive towards concentration, but she’d zone it out,
same as she’d background the possibility of the spooked stray getting hold of
a piece and taking panicky pot-shots about the place. It was now or never.

Alexis, I need you back here ASAP,’ Bett ordered.

Shit.

‘ want this alarm shut down and I need the authorisation codes to stop the
cops coming down here.’

Learning from the main man, and though there was no one around to see,
Lex concealed both her initial angst and her subsequent delight behind a neu-
tral expression.

It'd be quicker if I just grabbed a machine where I am, sir, she relayed,
continuing past the floor Bett was speaking from and making for the deepest
level. Now, she not only had a window to work, but a reason to be at a PC if
the CCTV cameras happened to spot her doing it.

‘You can get the codes from another machine just as easily?’ he asked.

‘That’s why you pay me the medium-sized-but-entirely-reasonable bucks,
sir.’

Lex sprinted towards the specified lab and sat down next to the nearest
PC, waking it from its screen-saver snooze with a nudge of the mouse. She
doubted she could get the auth codes anything like as easily from here as from
a terminal that was already logged on at high clearance, but the fact was she
didn’t need to. She’d systematically — you could even say reflexively — logged
all the auth codes and passwords immediately when she found them, in the
same directory as the duty roster.

Lex plugged in her memory stick and called up the files. She could buy
herself more plausible keyboard time if she held off relaying them to Bett,
but the alarm sound was proving more brain-meltingly unbearable than she’d
anticipated. Presumably in a facility such as this, the intended effect in an
emergency was to make the staff stop at nothing to evacuate.

She told Bett the codes. The alarms ceased a few seconds later, and she
wouldn’t need to worry about his next order for a little while either as he’d be
on the phone to the local fuzz telling them to stand down their response. The
ringing in her ears faded into the deep, still silence that once again enveloped
the complex. There was nothing to hear but air vents and PC fans. Lex took
a breath, blinked her eyes clear and got to work. It took less than a minute
to locate what she was after. The files were encrypted, but she didn’t need to

worry about that just now. She just had to get them on to the memory stick.
She initiated the copy process and sighed deeply as she watched the blue line
slowly grow, crudely measuring the transfer’s progress as file names whizzed
in alphabetical order, too fast to read, across the bottom of the window.

The huge DivX files were last, naturally.

‘I need as many of the research and development files as you can get, but the
videos are crucial. If you don’t come back with those, don’t come back at all.’

Those were his words, the non-negotiable terms of the deal.

She cursed the slowness of the USB port as it drip-fed the data, but she knew
she should have copied the Divx files first, on their own, before anything else.
However, as she was in injury time, she had opted to select everything and
just blob the whole lot at once. Her anxiety was irrational, she knew. No one
was coming down here, certainly not in the couple of minutes it would take
to complete the transfer, but it was the stakes that made it excruciating.

‘Come on, come on, jeez,’ she muttered to herself.

Her ante: going behind Bett’s back.

On the table: walking free of him forever.

‘Bett’s not the only man in the world with contacts. You do this for me and
we'll see whether the Canadian government still cares so much about isolated
acts of teenage exuberance.’

The transfer finally completed, the event unnecessarily announced by a dia-
logue panel with typical Microsoft self-satisfaction. Lex dismissed it then knelt
down and reached behind the box for her USB stick. She heard the metallic
click of a gun being cocked somewhere behind her, and froze, feeling her
insides turn to concrete.

Don’t fuckin’ move,’ said a male voice, angry determination not quite mask-
ing tremulous fear. The accent sounded close to her grandfather’s, though the
choice of vocabulary was not. He sounded close, only a few feet away, and
yet she hadn’t heard him approach because she had all interrupts locked out,
so intent had she been on her business. Her first thought then, upon hearing
the voice, was relief at whose it wasn’t.

‘Get up. Back away from the desk. Keep your hands up.’

She complied, looking along the desk to where she’d left her weapon — not
far out of reach but far enough.

‘Turn around. Slowly.’

She turned, keeping her hands visible but close to her head. She let one
drop slowly to her collar, grimacing as though nursing a strain to disguise that
her fingers were pressing the mike.

‘Who are you people? Hands up where I can see them, I said.’

Lex removed her hand from her neck and faced him. It was the lab-geek,
no question: a little older than her, sandy fair hair, complexion hacker-sallow

from being cooped up in here and not spending much time in the Big Room.
He held his weapon in both hands, a stubby device with a bulky black-plastic
stock and the widest muzzle she’d seen outside of Elmer Fudd’s arsenal.

‘No hablo inglése,’ she ventured, by way of procrastination.

‘Aye, right,’ he retorted. ‘That’s why you were saying “come on” to the
computer? What are you doing here?’

‘Computer no hablo espariol. Me doing nada.’

His eyes flitted restlessly, their focus pinging around between the multiplic-
ity of factors he needed to control: Lex’s gun, his own weapon, Lex’s hands,
her face, her batbelt and the countless possibilities beyond the periphery of
his vision.

‘Answer me,’ he said, his voice lowered to a whisper by dryness in his throat.
He was very scared and for that, very dangerous. ‘Why are you here?’

Td find it easier to answer questions if that thing wasn’t pointed at my face,’
she said calmly.

‘Yeah,’ he replied, beads of sweat forming around his temples. ‘But I’ve a
sneaky feeling you’d be disinclined to answer altogether if it wasn’t.’

‘Could be right,’ she conceded. ‘But just stay cool right now, okay? You gotta
think very carefully about your next move, dude, and I'd advise you against
anything that might seriously preclude making friends with me.’

‘Why the hell would I want to do that?’

‘Because you may have the drop on me right now, but I got buddies coming
and you don’t. The alarms have been deactivated, the call-out to the cops has
been cancelled and we already took out all the security guards.’

‘In which case why would you spare me?’

T could tell you, but you wouldn’t believe me. In fact, you’d think I was just
trying to sell you a line that might get you to put the gun down.’

‘Well, there’s a quality double bluff if ever I heard one. I’ve no idea whether
Id believe you, but believe this: nothing you say’s going to make me put this
gun down. Though seeing as we’re standing here, why not try me anyway.’

‘Okay. We're here to...’

Lex never got to finish her sentence as her eye was drawn to Armand,
stealthily opening the door six or seven yards behind the lab-geek’s right
shoulder. Her pause betrayed him. It wasn’t much, but with her captor’s
eyes locked on hers, it was enough. He turned in response to the noise, swiv-
elling his shoulders and firing the weapon just as Armand was levelling his.
Armand’s right hand recoiled and slammed into the wall next to the doorway,
driven there and stuck, together with his gun, by an issue of thick white goo.

The lab-geek spun back to face Lex, but he’d blown it the second he took
his eye — and his aim — off of her. Lex had changed her stance immediately,
her weight shifted and her hands already in position to grip as he brought the

gun around. Her right hand took his forearm, holding it straight, as her left
pushed the gun firmly and smoothly, his own despairing grip causing his arm
to twist and his balance to lurch in compensation. After that it was a matter
of merely taking one step away to drop him on his back to the floor, that same
step taking Lex closer to her own weapon. She gripped it in her right hand,
still holding his with her left, and pointed it at his chest.

‘Told you you should have made friends, dude,’ she said.

Her knuckles curled around the trigger as a voice sounded in her ear.

‘Don’t shoot, Alexis. Just bring him to me.’

It wasn’t only Lex’s fingers that froze. She glanced away from the sprawling
lab-geek and scanned the room. A camera spied down at her from one corner
of the ceiling. Bett was watching. But how much had he seen?

‘Yes, sir,’ she said, pressing her collar-mike.

‘What is this stuff?’ Armand asked, as he tugged his arm from the wall,
his fingers and sleeve entangled in stringy, elasticated yuck. It resembled
a gigantic gobbet of bubblegum, or ‘the world’s biggest come-shot’, as Som
vividly remarked when he arrived to assist.

The lab-geek said nothing, but the words ‘non-lethal enforcement’ came to
Lex’s mind. She unplugged her memory stick and slipped it into a velcro-
sealed pouch on her harness, then helped the lab-geek to his feet.

‘A moment,’ Armand requested, as she prepared to escort her prisoner away.
He gestured that it was for her ears only, so she drew close. ‘Keep his eyes
front,’ he stated, indicating with his own which direction she ought to be
leading him.

Lex didn’t ask why; it wasn’t a priority. She marched the lab-geek into the
corridor a couple of paces in front of her, her pistol pointed at his back. This
allowed her to steal a glance in the proscribed direction. There was a pallet-
trolley parked further down the tunnel, in the direction of the cargo bay and
the freight elevator. Grey fire blankets were draped over whatever Armand
and Som had been transporting, so Lex didn’t get to see what it was, but at
least she now knew what that extra sled was for.

Lex was grateful to be walking behind her charge, because that way he
couldn’t see that she was almost as nervous as him. Once again, she had
to rationalise. This was just her fear lending Bett absurd powers of inter-
pretation. There was little he could have seen that would have caused him
suspicion: Lex at a PC, tapping away. Even if it was after she’d supplied the
codes, it wasn’t unusual that she’d be curiously poking about inside the sys-
tem; that was what she did. Besides, if he’d been looking at the right monitor
at the time, he would have given her a heads-up that she was about to be
ambushed.

Still, the rush of arguing voices and conflicting possibilities was growing

cacophonic inside her head, which was why she ended up making small talk
with the geek.

‘We’re not going to hurt you,’ she assured him. Just taking you to see the
boss.’

‘Aye, right,’ he doubted.

‘Hey, it could have been worse, man. You could have been watching the
game with the others. You not a fan?’

‘I was taping it. Planned to watch it when I got home. That’s if nobody told
me the score.’

‘No danger from me. I don’t know it. But I do know whatever happened, it
didn’t end well for your security guys.’

‘So I gathered,’ he said bitterly. And how’s it going to end for me?’

The Security and Surveillance HQ doorway stood only yards ahead.

‘Youre just about to find out.’

Lex overtook him and ushered him inside, where Bett was waiting next to
the monitor console, a telephone ready in preparation. He offered the lab-
geek an outstretched hand, which he shook half-heartedly with near-dazed
uncertainty, then Bett told him what he wanted him to do.

Bett hit dial. They heard the tones sound out twice from the speaker before
it was answered.

‘Hello,’ said a voice: male. English accent. ‘Nicholas Willis here,’ he identi-
fied himself. ‘Who is this?’

‘Sir, the lab-geek started throatily. He swallowed and began again. ‘Sir, this
is Ross Fleming at Marledoq. I’m calling to inform you that it’s twenty-two
eighteen hours and I am currently being held at gunpoint by intruders who
have complete control of the facility. Sir, I’m sorry, they just came from—

‘Yes, thank you, Mr Fleming, that will be all,’ Bett said, taking the receiver
from him and turning the speakerphone off. ‘Hello, Mr Willis. Yes, reck-
oned Id better do that in case you thought I was making this call from my
living room. For the record, we had complete control at twenty-two eleven,
that’s twenty-four minutes after entering the subterranean complex, forty-one
minutes after first point of contact at your exterior perimeter and sixty-seven
minutes after landing our helicopter. Indeed. I’ll be putting all of those de-
tails in my written report, along with my full list of recommendations and, of
course, my invoice. No, I agree, it’s not good at all, Mr Willis. Well, that’s at
your discretion, but, personally, my first step would be to fire anyone who is
right now literally sleeping on the job. I'll be in touch.’

Bett put down the phone.

‘Who are you people?’ Fleming asked.

‘What’s called a Tiger Team,’ Lex told him. ‘We were brought in to carry out
a Defence and Integrity test on the Marledoq complex. If you don’t mind me

telling you the scoreline in advance, it didn’t pass.’

‘No kidding.’

Td anticipate seeing a lot of changes around here, Mr Fleming,’ Bett said.
‘Your employers are about to seriously upgrade this facility’s security. ’m sure
you know more than I about precisely why, but from precedent my guess is
you're working on something that certain people might be prepared to go to
extreme lengths to procure.’

Lex felt her hand move unbidden towards the pouch on her harness where
the memory stick sat safe, storing her stolen digital cargo.

Extreme lengths indeed, she thought.


Sports cars and casinos

Jane stopped dead in her tracks when she saw him approaching hurriedly in
the smir under the low, grey, mid-morning sky. It was eleven in the morning,
but passing cars still had their headlamps on and there had been no improve-
ment in natural visibility since the street lights went off two hours before. He
was in uniform, grim-faced as he clutched his gun. She stared, the conse-
quences hitting home, and in that moment her hesitation cost her the option
to hit the deck. He looked up and saw her. Eye contact had been made, so he
knew she was there.

If she’d been more alert, she could have spotted him earlier, she knew, and
taken steps accordingly: changed her itinerary, used her time on areas his
intrusion wouldn’t affect, or possibly just hidden her presence altogether. Kill
all the lights, stay low, wait it out, and he’d move on; then a simple phone-call
to relay the appropriate information would prevent his coming back. But all
of that was moot now. She no longer had any choice but to let him do his
worst.

She walked reluctantly to the front door in her stocking soles, the delicacy of
her imprint seemingly pointless in the face of what was about to be wreaked.

‘Morning. Here to read your gas meter,’ he announced.

‘Oh, sure, come on in,’ she said, faking a smile. It wasn’t his fault; he was
only doing his job. It was just bad timing, really had timing. If she’d held
off on the hall for five minutes, it wouldn’t have made a big difference, or if
she hadn’t just mopped the kitchen floor, she could have called him round the
back door and let him in there.

She led him down the full length of the hall to the cupboard under the
stairs, at the far end next to the living room, where he pointed the gun and
took his reading.

‘That’s me, thank you,’ he told her, then she escorted him back out again. A
matter of moments, that was all it took.

Jane closed the door and turned around, surveying the damage. Two sets of
bootprints, one in each direction, tracked the meter-reader’s passage up and
down her just-hoovered hall carpet. He’d not been particularly tall or heavy-
set, but that didn’t matter: it was all in the soles. Flat spread the weight and

37

left minimum markage, but his chunky, patterned rubberware had bitten into
the pile like a Dobermann, and that Dobermann had drooled, too. Almost
every step was damp on the inwards journey, and nearer the door there were
dark streaks, an abrasive seasonal compound of earth, decayed leaves, gritter-
salt and bark.

She should have let him in the back door anyway, she thought ruefully.
At this time of year, she should always and only let them in the back door.
Mopping the kitchen again would take a fraction of the time, though at the
cost of damp stockings (bare feet not being an option due to leaving prints that
remained visible against the tiles after the floor was dry). The damp stockings
were going to be unavoidable anyway as she had to get to the sink and the
cupboard under it in order to begin working on the damage. Jane looked at
the glistening kitchen tiles. Why was it they only looked that clean and shiny
when they were wet, and why was it that you always had to go back into the
kitchen for something as soon as the floor had been mopped? She could wait
ten minutes for it to dry, she considered, already anticipating the feel of the
cold wet on the soles of her tights, but that was ten more minutes for that
sludgy compound to be drying into her carpet.

Damn it. She took a step forward, bracing herself for the ick factor of
that cold, spreading sensation, then stopped and remained at the edge of the
carpet. For the resourceful operative, there were always other options. Jane
leaned inside, her left foot still outside the door, her right held in balance
in the air as her hands met the island worktop. She tipped herself further
until the edge of the Formica pressed just beneath her chest, then reached
her hands towards the far edge and pulled, her centre of gravity shifting all
weight forwards. Both feet left the ground as she pivoted on her front on the
edge of the worktop, before hauling herself and turning in one movement to
leave her sitting on the island. Good to know all those aerobics sessions at the
gym had a practical pay-off. Drawing her legs up to her chest and spinning on
her bottom, she manoeuvred to the other side of the island, from where she
was able to reach out with her right leg and hook a dish-towel off the radiator
with her big toe before transferring it to her right hand. Thus armed, she let
the towel unfold and dropped it gently to the floor, then stepped down on to
it with both feet. After that, it took only half a yard of the tied-foot shuffle to
get her to the sink, the dish-towel providing a priceless protective membrane
between soles and floor.

Jane ran a basinful of hot water and added some washing-up liquid, before
unlatching the cupboard below, where her heavy-duty chemical arsenal was
stored. So many abrasives, detergents, poison warnings, death-heads, bio-
hazard decals. She often wondered whether, if you put all these cleaning
agents together in the right quantities, you might create something that could

blow half the neighbourhood to Kingdom Come, or even just to Busby.

They should never have gone for self-coloured, she thought, working
carpet-mousse into the fibres with a sponge. It showed up everything; not
just dirt, but each wisp of fluff from Tom’s socks, each discarded snippet of
thread from clothing. Plus, they should have definitely, definitely chosen a
twist rather than a pile that becomes churned-up and streaky if walked upon
in anything more substantial than M&S nylons — and even that is enough
to make it look bumpy and mottled after a while. What use was a carpet
if it doesn’t look good after any modicum of pedestrian traffic? On occasion,
she found herself watching visitors arrive and wishing she hadn’t invited them
because they were about to violate this expanse of laboriously cultivated neat-
ness. Then, once they were inside, her mind was drawn impatiently through-
out their conversation to thoughts of combing it neat again as soon as they
left.

She finished with the mousse and returned the basin to the kitchen floor,
then made for the hall cupboard and her trusty Dyson. Within a couple of
minutes, most of the meter-reader’s tracks had been erased, with only the
damp patches near the door testifying to his having visited. She surveyed this
with the satisfaction she always enjoyed when it had been freshly combed: no
streaks, no imprints, just an unspoilt virgin purity. If only people didn’t then
have to go and walk on the damn thing.

Okay, all of this was daft, she knew. The guys who painted the Forth Bridge
understood that there was no end; like the river below them, their work was a
constant flow. She understood that too, most of the time. Today, for goodness’
sake, she was hoovering every speck, and rendering the place immaculate
when she knew Michelle was bringing Rachel and Thomas over in the after-
noon ~ the pair of them capable of turning the place upside down in minutes.
But she needed, every so often, to restore a kind of equilibrium. It reassured
her to achieve this — the untrammelled carpet, the sparkling kitchen tiles, the
empty laundry basket, no clothes on the horse or in the pile — because if that
equilibrium had been restored, even for a short while, it meant that no matter
what the subsequent disruption, it could be restored again.

And this also, she knew, was daft. Very daft. She had to take a step out-
side herself to see it, however, which was a rarely glimpsed perspective, and
sadly not one revelatory enough to free her. It meant she was still obsessive-
compulsive, but self-conscious and embarrassed about her lot into the bargain.

Obsessing over carpets and laundry. How on earth had it come to this?
Tom said she was suffering some kind of mid-life crisis, though that was in
response to her Private Hire work and her abortive mature student foray into
academia. He didn’t really mean it. It was merely his way of discounting what
she was doing as a phase he was impatiently awaiting her to get past. Men

were good at that; Tom was anyway: filing your activities and enthusiasms
away under Silly Female Behaviour, transient notions of a feeble and ditzy
mind. Bide your time and she'll be back to normal soon.

But what if this ‘normality’ was her mid-life crisis? If so, she’d be ex-

tremely disappointed. She’d always imagined it would take a form consid-
erably more dramatic than involuntary emotional investment in the condition
of her floor coverings, and be precipitated by something significant, remark-
able and halfway interesting. But maybe normality was what precipitated it.
What bigger crisis was there at this late juncture in your life than finding
yourself asking: Is this it?
The ironing, dusting, hoovering, mopping, sponging and re-hoovering com-
plete, Jane moved on to cleaning the bathroom and the downstairs toilet —
temporarily gleaming china representing a few more brief licks on those river-
spanning girders — before continuing her rich, full day with a jaunt to the
shops.

Apart from the major milestones of marriage, parenthood and bereavement,
other people marked the passing phases of their adult lives by the cities they
had lived in, stages in their careers, lovers they'd been with, projects they'd
worked on. ‘Ah, yes, the Barcelona years. Those summers with Theo, before
we grew apart. That controversial tenure with the Philosophy Department.
My Impressionist period.’ Jane could break hers down by supermarket. Early
Eighties: Presto. Late Eighties to mid-Nineties: Tesco. Late Nineties: Safeway.
Early Twenty-First Century: her J Sainsbury period. This last she considered
something of a belle époque, but strictly in terms of the shopping.

Jane had never had a career. A succession of jobs, yes, interrupted by child-
rearing, but never a career. She’d known only one city, and having lived on
its periphery in East Kilbride most of her adult life, she couldn’t even claim to
have known it that well. For more than twenty years she’d lived in the same
house, and for longer than that had had the same lover. Well, the same man
anyway. Projects? At least on that score she could say there’d been two. But
they had both left home now, indeed one of them had left the country, and
neither gave the impression they believed she’d done a bang-up job. On the
plus side, one of them was still speaking to her.

Being just up from Whirlies Roundabout, the Kingsgate retail park was yet
another node in the EK traffic-generation-and-recycling system, but it was
worth tolerating the congestion to shop in a comparatively calm and spacious
environment, especially when you spent as much time in supermarkets as
Jane did. Also, for Lanarkshire, they boasted more than the average number
of aisles not selling oven chips and frozen pizzas.

Jane enjoyed trailing along the shelves and counters, daydreaming about

what she’d like to make if she wasn’t going home to cook for Tom, who
thought that alternating between Indian and Chinese for his Friday-night take-
away meant he had an adventurous appetite. Tom’s favourite home-cooked
dish was stovies, though ideally it would have been cooked in his previous
home by his mother, whose culinary expertise had inexplicably failed to grant
her international acclaim and whose secret recipe for her signature dish had
gone with her to the grave, along with close to a hundredweight of rosary
beads. It said a great deal about why Scotland was perennially referred to
as the Sick Man of Europe that Tom considered home-made stovies a healthy
and wholesome option, as opposed to, say, a deep-fried pizza supper or an
intravenous injection of lukewarm, but rapidly congealing, pork-fat. Consist-
ing of reheated Lorne sausage swimming in a watery stew of boiled carrots
and disintegrating spuds, Tom’s-Mammy-recipe stovies looked like what you
might find swilling at the bottom if a butcher, a greengrocer and a pet-store
shared the same wheelie bin. Jane was of the belief that Lorne sausage was
something people would get into trouble for feeding to animals in ten years’
time, and was pretty sure that in other countries, they wouldn’t even let you
store stovies in the same wheelie bin as normal domestic waste. So, it being
Thursday and her not having cooked it so far this week, guess what was on the
menu tonight? A fillet of that tempting-looking sea bass on a bed of wasabi
mash, with a spinach-and-coriander salsa? Some of that Gresham duck breast
nestling on crisp salad leaves and drizzled with an orange-and-mango reduc-
tion? Or...

‘Half a pound of square sausage, please.’

‘Square? Right you are, missus.’

Jane’s efforts at tempting Tom with more exotic fare had long since been
abandoned. Minor variations on familiar dishes were met with queries as to
whether she’d not been able to get the standard ingredients, and more am-
bitious undertakings had frequently been forsaken at the preparatory stage;
Tom suspecting experimentation was afoot and venturing into the kitchen to
inform her: Tl just have my steak/chicken/fish plain, with a few totties. Save
you all that bother.’

She should have spotted it from the start, and looking back, the evidence
was all there, but when you’re young you sometimes project more than you
actually see. The teen magazines of her youth should have offered less advice
on make-up and period pain if it allowed space to pass on more useful wisdom,
such as a warning that you were kidding yourself if you thought your young
suitor’s less desirable traits would fade with time, while allowing the fairer
ones to bloom. An old-fashioned streak in an adolescent can seem endearing,
single-mindedness a sign of character. Add twenty years and the effect is
considerably less charming.

It wasn’t that he was cantankerous or miserable with his stone-set ways:
what truly alienated Jane was that he was so satisfied by them. ‘Philistine’
was a term people used too freely to describe individuals they considered less
cultured than themselves, even just people who didn’t share their tastes. (The
supreme irony of this, she had learned, was that the original Philistines were
about five hundred years more culturally advanced than the Israelites.) If
Tom preferred stovies to a Nick Nairn creation, that was his shout. It wasn’t
his taste that made him a Philistine. It was that he seemed, as one of her
favourite books put it, content to live in a wholly unexplored world.

The book, The Lyre of Orpheus, was about staging a new opera, from con-
ception through to opening night. She’d read it no fewer than five times,
savouring every word, its pleasures, like all of the best novels, bittersweet
that it was a fiction. What wouldn’t she give to be part of something like that?
Any part: a seamstress working on the costumes; a line-prompt; the libret-
tist’s assistant, transcribing his flights of idea. To be working in concert with
committed, remarkable people, giving the best of themselves to create some-
thing of such excitement and beauty — a fluid, living testament to the peaks of
human aspiration. Who wouldn’t want to swap reality for the world between
those pages?

Answer: someone who'd rather be further advancing his attempted symbio-
sis with a leather armchair while watching endless repeats of Celtic games on
satellite pay-per-view.

She toured the store methodically, threading her trolley along every aisle
apart from the pet-food section, briefly skirting the alcohol selection last, to
pick up more cans of Export for Tom. The shelves of wine bottles glinted
colourfully as she passed them, but, as ever, she wasn’t tempted to lift any.
She also felt a little intimidated by the vastness of the selection, reckoning
you really needed to know what you were doing when it came to that sort of
thing. She didn’t drink wine. She’d had the odd glass of fizzy stuff, but it gave
her a headache, and on the very rare occasion they’d been out for a meal, Tom
just drank beer with his food. She remembered he had once or twice (more
probably once) opted for sharing a jug of sangria with dinner when they were
on holiday in Spain with the kids, but she wasn’t sure whether that counted.
It had tasted like medicine.

Her friend Catherine drank wine. She’d often have a glass or two, some-
times more, when they met up for lunch. Jane never quite caught what she
was ordering, unless it was Chardonnay; she’d heard that mentioned enough
to remember, and had even tried some once. It tasted worse than medicine.
She knew you had to ‘train your palate’ to appreciate it, but couldn’t imagine
herself doing so. Catherine only ordered Chardonnay occasionally, so most of
the time what she asked for sounded like some arcane code, worse than when

Ross started to talk technical. Every so often she would urge Jane to have a
glass, but as they usually met for lunch in Bothwell, where Catherine lived,
Jane would have to drive afterwards. She liked the idea of drinking wine, but
it was the same as she liked the idea of learning to play piano. She suspected
it was a bit late to start, and besides, you'd need to go to night school or
something to learn your way around all those bottles.

Jane headed for the checkouts, habitually scanning along the row. It wasn’t
busy, but she’d have to own up to queue length not being the only criterion
for her choice of conveyor belt. Embarrassing as it was to admit, she preferred
not to be served by a certain cheerful elderly lady, identified as ‘Margaret’ on
her name badge. Margaret was pleasantly chatty and entirely efficient, and
had done nothing to Jane that any rational person could complain about, but
had nonetheless meted out the greatest offence in a passing remark, all the
more wounding for it being an inescapable truth.

Jane had often been at the supermarket in charge of one or both of
Michelle’s kids, for whom Margaret always had a smile and a wave; and when
Jane was there on her own, the sight of a few bags of chocolate buttons on
the conveyor belt would prompt an affectionate enquiry after the wee ones.
It was on one of the latter such occasions that Margaret committed her great
oblivious sin, in response to Jane’s relating her recent success in getting the
weans to take a nap one afternoon while she got on with the ironing.

‘Aye, us grannies ken the score,’ she had said.

Jane could still feel that moment, the sensation of paralysis as disbelief and
denial crumbled, leaving a shattering revelation amid the broken shards of
the illusion with which she’d been deceiving herself. All right, maybe that
was laying it on a bit, but she’d never experienced such a sense of life having
ambushed her since the first time she found out she was pregnant.

Us grannies. She and Margaret, this white-haired and birdlike woman with
false teeth and wrinkled fingers, who was old enough to be Jane’s mother.
It was intended as a show of solidarity, even sorority, but in that moment
Margaret had held up a mirror and let Jane see how the world saw her. In
that mirror, she looked like Margaret. Us grannies ken the score.

Jane had technically become a generation older the moment her first grand-
child was born, three years ago, but Margaret’s remark was the moment when
she belatedly felt it. At the time of Rachel’s birth it hadn’t meant anything:
she knew she hadn’t got any older and it was still the same face in the mirror.
Her thoughts had only been of joy at the sight of her granddaughter, tinged
admittedly with a few concerns about Michelle, only twenty-two and follow-
ing in the missteps of her mother, who’d found herself in the same position at
nineteen.

She was forty-six now, forty-three when Rachel was born. There’d been lots

of jokes about her being a granny and applying for her bus pass, but she’d
happily laughed it all off because she still considered herself young. Being
a grandmother at forty-three didn’t change the fact that she was forty-three,
any more than it had altered the status of her school friend Jennifer when she
became an auntie at the age of nine. Forty-three was still young. Forty-six was
still young. You’re only as old as you feel, ran the cliché. She’d known people
who'd been in their fifties since they were adolescents — she had in fact been
foolish enough to marry one. Age was merely chronology. She knew what
being young meant. It meant that life still had plenty in store for you; maybe
even that it still had more in store for you than you'd already experienced.
It meant there was still time to do all those things, whatever all those things
might be.

Margaret’s remark hit her so hard because it forced her to realise that by
this, her own definition, she was no longer young, nor had she been for some
time. She felt pulled forward in some temporal vortex, at the end of which
she was sitting there, white-haired, bird-like, with false teeth and wrinkled
fingers, never having done any of those things. There was no time, and life
had little in store but more of the same. Suddenly she was in the third act, the
beginning of the end. Us grannies ken the score: we’ve had our whack. This
is it.

When Jane was a girl, it felt like the greatest treat when there was a James
Bond film on TV on a Sunday night, an epic adventure that made school the
next day seem a long way off. The Sixties ones were best, with Connery,
but even OHMSS was a fantastic escape. It didn’t matter about Lazenby be-
cause, unlike her brothers, she wasn’t watching them for James Bond. She was
watching them because they were like a two-and-a-half-hour holiday, a tour
of enticing locations and a vicarious glimpse of a lifestyle that was a world
apart. Scuba-diving in the tropics, skiing in Switzerland, chateaus, mansions
and hotels. One day, Jane Bell had always dreamed, she would go to a casino
on the French Riviera, dressed in something you'd get lifted for in Glasgow,
and she’d arrive there in a convertible classic sports car. It wasn’t a yearning
for riches, for money (although, as her mother used to say, it came in handy
when you were paying for the messages); it was a yearning to prove she could
be that woman, who could wear that dress, drive that car and walk into that
casino. And Jane Bell could have been that woman, she was sure, but she
wasn’t Jane Bell any more. She had become Jane Fleming, and Jane Fleming
ken’t the score.

Jane got pregnant when she was nineteen. She’d wanted a lot more from
life than even her Riviera fantasies before that happened. It was just before
the third-term exams in her first year at Glasgow Tech, two generations and
a lifetime ago. She was studying engineering, one of very few females doing

so at the time, but having grown up in a house with three older brothers, she
was used to the ratio and all that went with it. They were exciting days, and
not just for the usual reasons of adolescent liberation. The cultural insurgence
that was Punk was well under way, and with it a sense that nothing couldn’t
be changed; everything was finally up for grabs in an ailing and long-stagnant
society. The meek acceptance that everything was in the clutches of an older
generation and a higher caste was being noisily trashed. That’s what the
purple Roneo-copied fanzines said, anyway. Almost everyone she knew was
‘starting a band’, even if for many the declaration of intent was as important
a statement as any music they may or may not ever get around to playing.

Jane wasn’t much of a rebel. She got on well with her parents, for a start.
They were kind to her and she liked to please them in return, liked to see them
happy with her, their one little girl after three rowdy boys. She liked pleasing
them as she liked pleasing people in general, hideously uncool as that was to
admit. She’d been brought up to endeavour to do what was right, whether
that be working hard at school to get good results or going the messages
for old Mrs Dolan next door. John Lydon would have had her ceremonially
thrown out of that SPOTS gig if he’d had any idea of what was in his midst.
Jane wasn’t out to change the underlying social order. She was just intoxicated
by the energy of it all, of youth fearless and unfettered. She cropped her hair
short and dyed it blue. She mutilated this old red tartan frock of her auntie’s
to make a two-part tabard and mini-skirt affair. The top half was barely held
together down the sides by safety pins and hairy string, while the bottom
provided minimal cover but maximum contrast against her preferred Day-Glo
green tights. She still had a photo somewhere. She looked shocking, awful,
ghastly. But in a truly magnificent way.

There was a comic song around that time, the B-side of Andy Cameron’s
doom-tempting World Cup single, called I Want to Be a Punk Rocker but Ma
Mammy Wullnae Let Me. Jane guessed that could well have been her, had it
not been that her mammy did let her. Her mum had already been through a
few pointless losing battles with her eldest brother, Billy, over long hair, a skin-
head, long hair again, flares, platforms and Slade gigs. If Jane had stopped
going the messages for Mrs Dolan or tidying her bedroom of a Saturday morn-
ing, that would have caused more censure and concern. She feared she was,
in the words of another song of the time, a part-time punk, but in that she
was hardly alone. It being Glasgow, a familiar cry around the family hearth of
a Saturday afternoon would have been: ‘Haw Maw, gaunny iron ma bondage
troosers fur the night, pleeeease.’ It wasn’t about changing the world; it was
about being nineteen.

She called herself Blue Bell, in reference to her hair. She and her pals
all had these punk names for themselves. Suzi Spiteful, Tina Toxic, Corpse-

Boy, Venom, Bloodclot. She remembered two old punters behind them on a
bus into town one night, listening with growing amusement at their names.
‘Whaur’s Biffo?’? one asked the other. ‘Is that Biffo next tae Korky and
Gnasher?’

She saw The Clash, The Damned, The Buzzcocks, and of course SPOTS —
Sex Pistols On Tour Secretly — this last via a very drunken six-hour transit-van
trip to Middlesbrough. Casinos and sports cars weren’t high on her wish list
at that time, any more than a newbuild in EK with a husband and a baby. But
guess what?

For someone with dreams of distinguishing herself, of living a life that was
remarkable, was there any greater failure, anything more embarrassing, then
ending up a cliché? There were various ways of relating the tale, slants and
spins that could be put upon the details, but the most important facts didn’t
change: she got pregnant, had to drop out of college and was railroaded by
her circumstances into marrying the guy. The only way she could have topped
that would have been if the fateful encounter had been her first time, but it
wasn’t. It was just her first time with Tom and her first time without a condom.

Tom was a friend of her brother Steven, who knew him from the College of
Building and Printing. He was twenty-one but seemed older, certainly more
mature. He’d gone to college at seventeen so by twenty-one had graduated
and was working in his first job as a surveyor. He had disposable income and
his own car, which would have made him an attractive prospect even if he
wasn’t good-looking, but he was, albeit in a rather serious way.

He wasn’t a punk (a real waste given that Flem was a ready-made nick-
name), but he did seem to like the music and could afford to buy more of
the records than Jane or her crowd. He came along to a few gigs and dis-
cos, dressed in drainpipes and a leather jacket, but could hardly go the full
bhoona, with hair and piercings, he explained, because he still had to turn up
to places in a suit on Monday morning. Jane suspected Tom would never have
been going the full bhoona anyway, but didn’t particularly mind. Going out
with him, she felt she was getting the best of both worlds. She had her punk
pals to be daft, outrageous and generally irresponsible with, and, on the other
hand, she had a sensible and mature boyfriend, with prospects and money in
his pocket, who made her feel grown up in a way every young woman en-
joyed. His serious side was a welcome contrast with her other crowd, and
it actually felt quite flattering that someone like that didn’t see her as a silly
wee lassie. What he did see, she wasn’t so sure of, but she didn’t give it much
thought. At that age, you don’t ask these things of yourself. You just go out
until it stops being fun. When you’re truly young, you feel like the present
is forever. That’s why you don’t see the future careering towards you like a
runaway eighteen-wheeler.

Before going out with Tom, Jane had sex with two boyfriends plus two
one-night stands, both times drunken ‘friend-sex’ encounters with guys in the
punk crowd. The punk scene had been derided as sexless and John Lydon’s
withering remark about ‘two minutes of squelching noises’ was often quoted
in support, but only, Jane suspected, by green-eyed chroniclers on the outside
looking in. Sexless? Take adolescents in ripped clothes, add music and liberal
doses of cheap alcohol. What do you think you’re going to get? The tabloid
reporters with their hackneyed seaside-postcard idea of what constituted sexy
couldn’t get their heads around the fact that they weren’t dressing to attract
the opposite sex. They were — girls and guys — dressing to express themselves,
and as far as she was concerned, nothing was sexier than that.

Sex at that age felt like another youthful freedom, another new area for
exploration, for expression, for fun. Meaningless? Maybe. Serious? Never.
Then along came Tom and it suddenly became a psychological minefield, each
minor advance in how far she could tempt him to go followed by a ghastly
spectacle of guilt and self-recrimination.

Jane’s family were nominal Prods but actually not religious. Perhaps if they
had been, she’d have known a little better what she was dealing with, before
Catholicism notched up another pyrrhic victory by punishing ordinary human
behaviour.

Tom wouldn’t accede to her request, even couched in his own words, to
wear a condom ‘in case things go too far’. His otherwise cautious and sensi-
ble rationality was obliterated by a combination of primitive superstition and
plain old denial. The logic ran thus: the big beardy punter in the sky forbade
contraception, and wearing a johnny ‘just in case’ would only make going too
far that bit easier. This part she couldn’t argue with; indeed was counting
on to get him past this stupidity. His counter-logic, however, was that not
wearing a condom would therefore constitute an insurmountable deterrent.

In the words of the wee schoolboy, upon being told by his teacher that
there was no example in the English language of a double positive expressing
a negative, ‘Aye, right.’ When religion attempted to play the immovable object
to human sexuality’s unstoppable force, there could only ever be one result.

The A word loomed large in her head, filed under Easy Way Out. Toxic
Tina’s older sister had had one. She could get it done before anyone found
out. But ‘before anyone found out’ was always going to be a short window
of opportunity, and it proved not to be one she was decisive enough to take.
The catch-22 was that aborting was something she could only go through
with before anyone close to her found out, but she couldn’t go through with it
before talking to someone close to her. She wasn’t the most politicised student,
but she knew where she stood on a woman’s right to choose: she’d signed the
petitions, been to the meetings, worn the badge, and she’d do the same today.

But at that most lonely and vulnerable time, her squeamishness at the thought
of something growing inside her was topped only by her squeamishness at the
thought of somebody taking it out.

Her parents were as supportive as she could have possibly hoped, and in
that respect she knew she’d been extremely fortunate. Matters were discussed
openly and pragmatically, but she still got the sense that summit meetings had
been taking place above her head. Marriage, therefore, was more arrived at
by consent than proposed. There was no going down on one knee and, then
at least, no ring. Tom offered because he was dutiful, responsible and caring,
and because he believed it was the right thing to do. There was also the fact
that his parents would rather see him burned at the stake than be father to
an illegitimate child — and a Proddy one at that — but her own mum and dad
made it clear to all that it would be Jane’s decision and hers alone.

She was so, so young. Marriage was for proper grown-ups, not kids like
her. But then so was motherhood. Tom was decent, attractive, had a good
job, money in the bank and she knew he’d look after her. What more could
she ask for, in her circumstances? It wasn’t how she’d pictured this moment
in her life, but it wasn’t the end of the world; just the end of a world and the
beginning of a new one.

Fast-forward three years and it was a far better world than she could have
imagined. She had two lovely children, Ross then Michelle, fourteen months
apart (she had her tubes tied after the latter given that Tom still wouldn’t
countenance any form of birth control), a nice house, holidays abroad, even
her own car, Tom’s promotion earning him a company one. A glimpse at
how her old pals were doing showed her where she could have been had she
finished her studies, and it looked like she had been the one who struck it
lucky. It was the early Eighties, Thatcher was in power, nobody had a job and
everyone was skint, still living like students in bedsits or in many cases back
with their folks.

On the whole, she knew she had it good; but though she had few com-
plaints, that didn’t mean she was without regrets. There wasn’t much prospect
of a career, for one. Even once the kids were both school-age, the hours be-
tween dropping them off and picking them up were rapidly filled with shop-
ping, cleaning, ironing and cooking, leaving no scope for anything other than
part-time work. It was something she accepted, but never entirely made her
peace with. She enjoyed being a mum and she loved her kids, but from time
to time felt this guilty admission that she still wanted something more. Not
something else, just something more. Was that such a heresy, to admit that
your love for your family wasn’t sufficiently all-consuming as to extinguish all
other desires? Did it mean she wasn’t cut out for this? And did any other
mothers feel this way too? None that were owning up to it, but that didn’t

mean she was alone.

As the years passed, though, she found herself rationalising many of her
own dreams away, and having dreams for her kids instead. These proved no
less a source of frustration, but at least helped her see how daft some of her
own notions had always been. Sports cars and casinos were just a wee girl’s
fantasy, but they had endured in her mind as icons that had come to represent
another self she could yet aspire to be. They symbolised her belief that she
was still young, that she could still do something more with her life, one day.

Going back to college, for instance. That was meant to be the big new
beginning. She had no inclination to resume her original studies, instead
deciding that someone who had read as many books as she ought to have a
crack at English Literature. She applied to Glasgow Uni and received an offer
conditional upon topping up her qualifications, including an improved and
more up-to-date Higher English. This meant a year of night classes, which
was no hardship as it regularly got her out of the house and away from half-
man-half-armchair and the relentless tyranny of Sky Sports. Having waited
this long to restart her life, what was another year? Well, another year was
time enough for Michelle, who’d graduated from Strathclyde in Pharmacy
and was working at the Royal Infirmary, to meet Doctor Right, marry him and
conceive their first child.

Jane tried not to dwell on the rather mocking sense of déja vu when she
calculated that Michelle was due around about third-term in her first year as
a mature student, and pressed ahead with her studies. She sat — and passed —
her exams, amid the considerable distraction of Rachel being born, then en-
joyed a long summer, during which it became clear that she was indispensable
to her daughter. And if there was any doubt in her mind where her respon-
sibilities lay, Michelle getting pregnant again, before the autumn leaves fell,
dispelled it utterly.

This time she had no regrets. It put into perspective what was important,
and besides, she told herself, there was still time for .... whatever. Michelle
planned to go back to work after the second baby, so both the kids would
be going off to nursery when they were two. Jane was only forty-three that
autumn. She was still young; life had plenty left to offer. She’d resume her
degree one day, along with whatever else she wanted to embark upon. Broad-
ened horizons, new beginnings. One day.

Michelle did go back, taking a job at Hairmyres Hospital once Thomas had
started nursery. That was about six weeks back, just before Margaret laid
down that inescapable truth which, deep down, Jane had known all along.

There is no ‘one day’. There is only today, and today wasn’t about sports
cars or casinos or degrees or new beginnings. Today was about hoovering the
carpet, trailing round the supermarket and cooking stovies, before vegetating

mindlessly all evening in front of the TV next to a man she still lived with only
because neither of them had anywhere else to go.

Us grannies ken the score.

Aye. We lost.

The specialist
Lex was stirred from her daydreaming by the sensation of the chopper losing
altitude. She’d been watching the rain streak the window to her left, there
being nothing else to look at as they’d been flying through cloud for the past
ten minutes.

‘T’ve always wanted to ask, how do pilots know where they’re going when
they can’t see twenty feet in front?’ she enquired of Rebekah, sitting to her
right at the controls.

‘Navigational instruments and the altimeter let you know where you are.
You don’t think in terms of what’s directly in front — it’s not like driving a
car. You think in terms of what’s five miles in front. It’s all about vectors and
trajectories.’

‘Yeah, I got the navigational concept. But how does thinking in terms of five
miles in front help you avoid some other sky-borne object that’s a hundred
feet ahead inside the cloudbank, or when it’s pitch-black outside?’

‘Oh, that’s generally where air traffic control comes in. Flights are all
logged, airspace allocated — you got corridors at different altitudes.’

‘Generally? What’s the exception?’

Rebekah smiled. ‘Unofficial, unauthorised aircraft flying at ultra-low alti-
tude to evade the ATC systems and thus remaining off the charts.’

‘Damn, I hate it when I know what you're about to say. And what do those
aircraft use?’

Rebekah laughed. ‘Radar, what else? You see that panel there?’

Lex looked at the little LED screen where Rebekah was pointing. She un-
derstood the principle but was neither impressed nor assured by the lack of
detail. There was a white triangle in the centre, picked out against the blue
background, two arrows flanking it, each above two decks of numbers.

‘Anything in the sky within range will show up, with its altitude and velocity
cited beneath the blip. Quit worrying just because you can’t see tail lights or
lines on a highway. You're only seeing clouds because you're only looking at
clouds.’

‘T think [’'d want something more than a tiny blinking light to let me know
there was a Seven-Forty-Seven bearing down on us at five hundred miles per

51

hour. What are you seeing?’

‘Clear passage to our refuelling stop, ETA three minutes.’

‘Okay. Just as long as you're also seeing pylons, steeples and cliff faces.’

‘Relax. We’re not as low as you think. Just wait for the second leg if you
wanna see low.’

Lex slammed her head back against the seat and sighed. ‘Scroll up to my
previous entry re knowing what you're about to say.’

‘Oh, grow a spine, girl. We’re still in French airspace. We haven’t even done
anything illegal yet, never mind dangerous.’

‘What about flying unlogged and unauthorised below ... etcetera etcetera?’

I was pulling your chain. This part of the flight is logged and authorised.
It’s the next part that won’t be.’

‘So we haven't flown below ATC radar yet? Oh God, don’t answer that.’

‘Scroll up yourself, I already did.’

‘And you actually relish the prospect of flying over the North Sea at roughly
the same altitude as a skimming pebble?’

‘Not a whole bunch, but I relish it more than the prospect of being escorted
to an airbase by RAF fighter pilots armed with heat-seeking air-to-air missiles.’

‘Copy that,’ Lex agreed.

They touched down on schedule. Having descended through a grey abyss
of cumulo-nimbus, it was a relief to finally emerge into clear air, even if there
wasn’t so much of it between them and terra firma. Rebekah landed the bird
close to a hangar at a small private airfield, then killed the engines and waited
for a fuelling truck to make its way across the runway from next to the flimsy-
looking office building.

Lex stepped outside to get some air. There was a light drizzle blowing
around so she didn’t stay long, but she needed a few moments’ wandering
where it was cool, with some wind in her face and her feet on the ground.
She’d never been scared of flying before, nor would she say she particularly
was now, but her perspective upon it had changed in recent months since
riding up in the cockpit with Rebekah. She’d never felt quite so safe again in
any car after her first driving lesson, suddenly bereft of the protective illusion
afforded by complete ignorance. Obviously she’d never been allowed to take
the controls of the helicopter, but simply being up in that thing with Rebekah
had caused the same effect: the magic spell had been broken.

That, however, only accounted for a fraction of her anxiety about this trip.
In fact, the moments of visceral terror awaiting her on their low-level scoot
across the English Channel and the North Sea would at least provide momen-
tary vacations from worrying about everything else.

‘You okay?’ Rebekah asked, having docked the fuel hose and given the go-
ahead to the truck-driver to start the pump.

Lex nodded.

‘tll be cool,’ Rebekah assured her. ‘These things practically fly themselves.
So much technology. One pilot and a dog, remember?’

‘I remember. And it makes me think about what we in the computer world
call the Airplane Rule: a twin-engine airplane has twice as many engine prob-
lems as a single-engine one. Complexity increases the possibility of failure.’

‘Good job we aren’t flying in an airplane, then, huh?’

‘Oh yeah. I’m sure the principle doesn’t apply to egg-beaters. How many
engines does it have?’

‘Two,’ she admitted with a naughty-little-girl grin.

Figures. Tell you the truth, though, the aircraft and the sub-radar low-jinks
don’t have me worried as much as the reason we need all that.’

‘Well, I know the etiquette about personal questions, but I’m guessing you
don’t want to end up being questioned by the British authorities any more
than I do. The sub-radar low-jinks are the price we pay for secrecy. What’s
wrong with that?’

‘The secrecy angle is covered. Look at the documentation we’re carrying:
fake passports, drivers’ licences, credit cards - complete ID work-up. We could
both make this trip on commercial transport under assumed identities and no
record would show that Alexis Sinclair Richardson or Rebekah Kristine Bardell
were ever here. The reason we’re doing it under the radar is that Air Bett
is less antsy than the commercial carriers about itty bitty things like toting
handguns and live ammunition on board their aircraft.’

‘Maybe you'll tell me different, Lex, but I can’t imagine you'd feel better
about walking into this thing without a gun.’

Tm pretty certain I’m carrying it for more than reassurance. That’s what
I’m nervous about. It would have been cheaper, simpler and safer to stick me
on a plane. Bett sent me this way, with you, on a private helicopter, under
the radar, so that when I got there I’d have a gun in my hand. That’s a lot of
trouble for just-in-case.’

‘No, Bett sent you this way, with me, on a private helicopter because he has
a private helicopter and a trained pilot at his disposal. He did it because he
can, and thus it’s the simplest solution. No disrespect, Lex, but if Bett really
thought we were heading for a shooting match, do you think he’d have sent
you and not Nuno?’

Lex had to concede the point. Rebekah was right about this, just like she
was right that the flight would be cool; terrifying, but ultimately cool. Unfor-
tunately, it was actually neither of these things that had Lex’s guts in spasm,
her brain dropping packets and her eyes looking over her shoulder. They were
merely plausible explanations to offer Rebekah when she noticed.

Truth was, Lex had been suffering from a feeling of impending disaster since
the moment this mission began, and nobody could reassure her over her fears
because for anyone to know what she was afraid of would require the worst
of them to have come true.

In fact, the feeling had started before she even knew what the mission was,
when Bett turned up unheralded at her apartment. Bett, to her knowledge,
never turned up unheralded at anyone’s apartment. If he needed you tout de
suite, he paged you and you went to him, right that second, no matter where
you were, what time it was, who you were with or whether you’d come yet.
If for any reason he needed to visit you at home, it was the same drill, and
you had, on average, about ten minutes to get ready. Whether you spent that
time putting on some clothes, tidying the place or improvising an explanation
to erstwhile lovers and inebriated houseguests as to why they had to leave
the building at four in the morning was entirely up to you. For him to just
show up and ring the doorbell was unprecedented and uncharacteristic, both
of which she took as surely indicative of only one thing.

She had been working on the procurement of some electrical schematics
and architectural blueprints pertaining to the vault and safety-deposit box
galleries of a bank in Lisbon. They weren’t planning any practical demon-
strations; she just had to report on how much technical information she was
able to acquire and what level of expertise had been necessary in doing so.
The answers at that point would have been, respectively, ‘Not much so far,’
and, ‘More than this lamer has been able to exercise,’ with a rider that things
might look different in a few hours if she could get this crufted-together code
she was wrestling to do the needful. Consequently, she was in what real pro-
grammers called deep-hack mode - interrupts locked out — when Bett rang
her bell. This, in fact, meant he had to ring her bell four times before she was
drawn sufficiently close to the surface as to be able to hear it. Naturally, he
was not delighted by the delay, though the displeasure in his face was nothing
compared to the revulsion he must have seen staring back in hers. Happily,
he’d seen the depressurisation-trauma effect of her being peremptorily yanked
back from deep-hack mode before, and assumed that this was all he was see-
ing, thus failing to register her genuine terror and conspicuous guilt at the
mere sight of him standing in her lobby.

There’d been a number of ‘This is it’ moments since her act of moonlight
freelancing on the Tiger Team job at Marledoq. The instances had depleted
with time, beginning with the paranoid expectation that Bett’s every greeting
was an overture towards challenging her about her deception; then graduat-
ing towards making the same assumption only when he did something slightly
unusual, such as compliment her work or offer her a smile. With three months
having passed, her more rational side was starting to hold sway in its bid to

convince her that if Bett knew anything, he’d have done something about it
by now. Her less rational, but defensively cautious, side was nonetheless still
aware that Bett was the kind of calculatingly twisted individual who might
keep his powder dry — and his transgressor in excruciating suspense — before
finally meting out punishment just when she thought she was in the clear.

Up until then, Marledoq had borne no consequences, least of all the ones
she’d bargained on. Yeah, why wasn’t that a surprise. She’d been way too
eager to grab at the bait, and once the deal was struck had thereafter been
more worried about how she was going to pull off her side of it than about
whether she was ever likely to see the reciprocal back-end. Man, did she ever
walk into that with her pants down and her wallet open. She’d known it,
truly, deep down: face it, girl, when she went to that hand-over she’d have
been surprised if she was sent away with anything more than ‘Thanks’ and ‘T’ll
call you’. But still she’d needed to try. Maybe it was an act of faith and maybe
it was just an act of defiance, but she’d been compelled to give it a shot.

And she’d done it, too. That was what made her feel so dumb about walking
away empty-handed. She’d been smart enough to acquire the files, but not
smart enough to make the most of it once she had them. Why did she just
cough up like a good little girl? Why didn’t she play hard, or even halfway
cute? ‘Sure, I got the memory stick, but you don’t get your hands on it until I
see something more than a promise in return.’

Yeah, right. Like she could have pulled that shit off. He’d have laughed in
her face, then probably killed her and raided her apartment to get what he
needed. In that respect, she was actually kind of relieved that nothing further
had come of it, that it was over and she wasn’t going to hear from him again.
She had no idea who she was dealing with — or even what his name was, or
how he knew what he did about her. From the moment she agreed to steal
the files, she had a real sense of getting in over her head, and, coming from
someone who worked with Bett, that was saying something.

So she hadn’t played hard and she hadn’t played cute, but she hadn’t played
it entirely stupid either. She didn’t give up the stick before making copies of
the files, albeit as much out of habit as any kind of strategic thinking. Lex was
an obsessive when it came to backing up data, and the harder it had been to
create or acquire something, the more insurance she required against it being
wiped. Given what she’d gone through to swipe the Marledog files, there was
no way she was going to entrust their integrity to a flimsy USB stick. She’d
copied the portable memory to her laptop immediately when she got back on
the chopper, then transferred the data to the PC in her apartment as soon as
she got home.

It had just been a matter of back-up, nothing more underhand, and nothing
he hadn’t anticipated anyway.

Tve no way of knowing whether you've copied these files and you’ve no
way of proving you haven't,’ he said. ‘But if you do have copies, I’d advise
you to erase them right away and to do so without looking at them. What’s
on them won’t mean much to you anyway, but as I always say, what you don’t
know, you can’t be tortured to reveal.’

She hadn’t examined them, not even the DivX audio-visual files, not having
needed any dire warnings to reason that it was best for her own protection to
be only the courier. She was paranoid enough about saying something that
would give her away to Bett, a danger that would be greatly exacerbated by
a burden of knowledge she wasn’t supposed to have. One wrong word -— or
rather one informed word - and she might have a lot of explaining to do.

Nor had she felt remotely comfortable about storing this stuff on her hard
drive at home, despite the data being re-encrypted, the file-extensions altered
to disguise their nature and the whole cache buried somewhere so deep in
the hierarchy that nobody would ever stumble across them unless they really
knew what they were doing. Erasing the files seemed like the most logical
and sensible thing to do because, once they were gone, so was the evidence
of what she’d done, meaning she could draw a line under the whole thing.

However, logic and sense were not enough to overcome Lex’s instinct and
compulsion: when it came to data, she only erased what she was sure she’d
never need again, which had thus far included only mislabelled MP3s and
emails offering to make her penis twice as long. For Christ’s sake, she still had
a CD up ona shelf, full of save-game files so she could pick up where she left
off if she ever felt like reinstalling Doom II. There was no way she was trashing
the Marledog files for the sake of most probably only fleeting peace of mind.

There was a compromise: if she wouldn’t be remotely comfortable storing
the files locally, then she would be comfortable storing the files remotely. She
copied them to an FTP server and committed its address to memory, before
wiping all trace of the server and the Marledogq files from her system. After
that they were out of sight and increasingly out of mind.

Until Bett rang the doorbell.

‘Grab what you need — absolute basics and essentials,’ he said, once she’d
sufficiently recovered from her shock to step aside and let him stride through
the door into her hall. ‘Something’s come up, time-sensitive. Rebekah’s prep-
ping the Little Prince.’

‘Do I need overnight stuff? I mean, like, how long?’ she managed to mum-
ble.

Just put on something you didn’t sleep in and bring whatever brain capacity
isn’t currently online, which doesn’t appear to be much. Come on.’

Tll be right there,’ she said, going to the bedroom to change her underwear
and pull on a fresh T-shirt and some jeans. She was indeed still wearing what

she’d slept in last night, or fairer to say she’d slept for a while in what she was
wearing when she started work. ‘I just need a second,’ she called out. ‘I didn’t
know you were coming. Why didn’t you page me?’

‘1 did,’ he replied, with testily over-pronounced patience. ‘Twice. After that,
I had ascertained you were likely to be Glasgow Coma Scale four in front of
that monitor and was on the verge of calling Armand instead, but as you were
the first person I thought of when this thing came up, I set off in the hope
of having greater success via your doorbell. For your information, you had
approximately twenty more seconds before I kicked the door in and dragged
you physically away from the computer.’

‘Sorry, sir. It was the Lisbon project. I figured out a way to get beyond this
impasse between—’

‘Relevance suspended. Get your laptop. We’re going back to Deimos.’

That last word echoed around Lex’s head as she descended the stairs and
followed Bett out to the street, where his Porsche was waiting. She’d no
idea what this was about yet, and no rational reason, therefore, to make any
assumptions, but merely hearing the name again was enough to unsettle her.
Marledog hadn’t gone away. She may have cached the evidence and covered
her connection to it, but there was no way of knowing what might have been
set in motion when she handed over those files.

Bett’s other remarks did little to quell her unease, and she was wary of how
they piqued her curiosity. You were the first person I thought of when this thing
came up. Why, she wondered, though her desire to vocalise this question was
tempered by the returning fear that in doing so she might give something
away. Would it sound strangely defensive for her to ask this, or would a lack
of curiosity be more suspicious?

She wasn’t cut out for bare-faced deceit. Stealth and subterfuge, sure thing,
but not this. Trying to remember what ought to be natural, what she should
or shouldn’t appear to know, was never something she’d enjoyed much of a
facility for. Not offline, anyway.

Happily, Bett saved her from making the decision; less happily, his words
did anything but allay her anxieties.

‘We’re not going back to Marledog itself,’ he explained, pulling away on
to the quiet, narrow street, ‘but to Chassignan, where a lot of the workers
live. However, the job should nonetheless provide you with an opportunity to
redeem your little lapse there in December.’

‘Yes, sir,’ she said, as neutrally as her acting talents would allow, then re-
mained silent, not because she reasoned it the best policy, but because she’d
be struggling to keep the tremble from her voice if she said anything else.

This was one occasion when it was definitely the right stance to sound like
she knew what he was referring to, even though she didn’t. If by her lapse

he meant her spot of privateering, then it was wisest to play it straight and
thus play it down. ‘Oh yes, that, sir. I was wondering when you'd bring it
up.’ But realistically, he wouldn’t be this calm if that was what he was talking
about. Not unless he was being truly, dispassionately sadistic, a thought too
frightening to contemplate. Her stilted answer precluded finding out what
other lapse he could mean, but to do else would alert him that there was
more than one lapse to consider; or, almost as suicidal, suggest she couldn’t
immediately think of any flaw in her performance that she needed to make up
for.

They arrived in Chassignan a few hours later, Rebekah on air-chauffeur duty
and evidently not much else given that Bett had begun briefing Lex in the
passenger cabin and thus excluded their pilot from the discussion. Lex lapped
up the information, sparse as it turned out to be, because every detail was
further reassurance that Bett’s agenda was something other than that which
she feared.

‘One of their staff has gone missing,’ he said. ‘And not the janitor, as ’m
sure you can guess.’

Bett told her the name and she nodded, disguising the fact that it meant
nothing to her. This in itself was not significant. Names were seldom the thing
that stuck about people Lex met; stories, yeah, mannerisms, sure, hair, relative
height. Not names. Everybody had one. Online handles were a different story,
because at first they were all you had to remember someone by, but out in the
Big Room, other aspects usually proved more memorable. In this case, then, it
was no surprise she was drawing a blank. She’d only been to Marledog for less
than two hours three months ago, and as her principal interaction with most
employees had been shooting them with tranquilliser darts, none of them had
much time to make an impression, far less tell her their names.

Except one. Ah. And now she had it: not just who Bett was talking about,
but what her ‘lapse’ had been. The feeling of relief — that he meant the lab-
geek who’d got the drop on her — lasted for roughly the time it took to remem-
ber why the guy had been able to catch her off guard.

‘He’s in Research and Development, presumably working on something
rather important. In my experience, there are few companies sufficiently con-
cerned about employee welfare as to bring in professional help when one
of their wage-slaves takes an unannounced mental-health day, and weapons
manufacturers would be well down that list. If he was replaceable, they’d
already be hiring.’

‘So how missing is missing? Has he been gone long?’

‘Details are sketchy, and I wouldn’t expect them to get much clearer any
time soon. What you'll have to keep in mind throughout this business is that
we are dealing with the arms industry. These people are secretive and disin-

genuous when they’re asking you to pass the milk over breakfast. Just because
they need our help and they’re paying us doesn’t mean they'll actually tell us
what we need to know in order to get the job done.’

‘And why do they need us to get the job done? I’m guessing they don’t want
the police involved—

‘Very good, you're learning.’

‘But this isn’t exactly our speciality either’

‘Quite. The police won’t get involved in a missing-person case unless there’s
firm evidence of criminal activity, and if there is firm evidence of criminal
activity, you can be damn sure Industries Deimos won’t want the police getting
involved. They came to us because we are a known quantity. We have a
relationship with them and they trust us. Two seconds to identify the error in
that statement.’

‘Arms companies trust no one.’

‘Correct. So in this context, by trust I mean they believe they can control
our involvement and remunerate us sufficiently to guarantee our discretion
after the fact.’

‘And would the cache of gizmos we stole from them in December for Som
to play around with constitute a down payment on this remuneration?’

‘Not as far as Deimos are aware. The loss of such items merely highlighted
the prevalence and ease of pilfering from the facility under such lax security
conditions.’

Lex blanked out the more paranoid interpretations of this remark.

‘I guess they wouldn’t have called if they knew otherwise,’ she said, thinking
of the true extent of that night’s theft.

‘Oh, they might, they might. In the grand scheme, quite probably. If they
needed us enough, they wouldn't let something as trivial as that get in the
way. And they do need us. However, the main reason they've come to us
pertains to the main thing we need to know and the last thing they're going
to tell us.’

‘Which would be what?’

‘Whatever they’re afraid of. Locating a missing person is, as you said, not
our speciality. So I'd be surprised if Deimos haven’t also engaged the services
of others whose forte it most certainly is; freelance investigators, maybe the
odd cop who’s on backhanders. But I would predict that tracking down the
missing scientist will prove less than half the battle. They came to us because
they suspect that even once located, their quarry won't be easily retrieved.
And retrieving what is guarded and hidden, my dear Alexis, most definitely is
our speciality.’

They landed in a field outside of the village, and were met by Nicholas Willis,

who’d been waiting for them by a large silver Mercedes. Willis was a tall,
gaunt, middle-aged guy, bald of pate with trimmed patches of white hair
above his ears. He was dressed in a suit and a greatcoat, but Lex pictured him
wearing a cravat and frilly cuffs on his days off. He looked like ‘Old Money’,
as her monetarily preoccupied (and not a little snobbish) grandmother would
have approvingly observed.

Rebekah killed the engines but stayed with the helicopter while Lex fol-
lowed Bett to the car. Bett got into the passenger seat, Willis chivalrously
opening the rear driver’s-side door for Lex. Bett and Willis exchanged pleas-
antries but avoided the matter in hand, like they didn’t want to prejudice the
experiment. Willis would have already told Bett all he could, or all he was
prepared to, leastways, so there was nothing much to add prior to seeing the
apartment. They spoke in English, Willis sounding even more Old Money than
he looked.

Some people’s accents altered in response to certain others’: hardening and
running to the colloquial, softening to accommodate an unaccustomed ear,
stiffening in formality. Sometimes it was a relaxation, other times a courtesy;
it could be a posture or a statement, and it could be entirely subconscious.
Bett’s accent did not alter one micro-nuance. This at least provided some
suggestion that English wasn’t his first language, but no further clues to his
provenance. Chalk another one up to Mr Impervious.

The journey took less than three minutes. Chassignan was a pleasant but
mousy little place, not so much sleepy as in chronic stasis. A small gas sta-
tion was the only immediate exemplar of twentieth-century construction on
the tree-lined main street, otherwise flanked by tall, well-maintained and uni-
formly shuttered apartment buildings. Lex’s own place dated from the early
nineteenth century, and these looked of a similar period or older. Closer exam-
ination of a few shop windows broke the fairy tale spell: recent DVD posters
in the tabac, Microsloth and Macintrash logos looking out through the glass of
an internet café. They had broadband ISPs and they had Vin Diesel flicks, so
the village knew there was good progress and bad progress, but she couldn’t
imagine much had really changed around here in a couple of centuries. Had
to be an abduction, she thought, sarcastically. How could anybody leave all
this?

Fleming’s apartment was one street back from the main drag. It was on the
fourth floor of five (or the troisiéme étage, the way the Europeans counted it),
up a bright and airy stairwell with broad stone steps and wide, solid landings.
Willis led the way on long, spindly legs, the hard leather soles of his shoes
tapping loudly on the stone with each step. They looked and sounded expen-
sive; the gait and footwear of a man unafraid to announce his approach. Lex
glanced at her scuffed training shoes, their impacts dampened almost apolo-

getically by chunky man-made grips. There was a good reason people called
them sneakers.

Bett walked at the rear on Doc Marten patent Airware. The soles cushioned
his steps, but his frame carried enough muscle for his footfalls to reverberate
with a formidable sense of presence she could feel as well as hear. He was
looking around as he ascended, scanning, analysing, evaluating, filing. Lex
knew she could look in the same places and see no more than a staircase,
which made her wonder what use Bett expected her to be when they reached
the flat.

Willis pulled a set of keys from his greatcoat pocket, delicately undoing the
lock before turning the handle with a grimace, as though he was opening a
wound.

‘Where did you get the keys?’ Bett asked.

Willis stepped aside from the door.

‘Oh, from our property manager. It’s a new lock. He put it in to replace the
other one, which was ruined.’

Bett had a look at the doorframe. ‘It wasn’t forced,’ he observed.

‘No, drilled, he said. Drilled through.’

‘And you told me on the phone that nobody in the building heard anything?’

‘Property manager believes it was a...’ Willis mimed turning a crank. ‘You
know?’

‘Yes. Stealthier, but slow. You own the building?’

‘We own the apartment. We have a few dotted around. If you want to
headhunt gifted staff, you have to be able to accommodate them immediately.
Some stay just until they find a place themselves, but others ...’

‘How long was Fleming here, then?’

‘Two years. Shall we ...?’ Willis invited, with visible reluctance and dis-
taste.

They stepped into the small hallway, which was little more than a conduit
between three rooms, the largest of which was an open-plan kitchen and living
area.

‘Have you been in here before?’ Bett asked. ‘I mean, since ...’

‘Yes. We tried not to disturb anything. I don’t find it particularly comfort-
able, to be frank, being in someone else’s home without his say-so, but the
buck stops here, as they say.’

Lex could sympathise. It was not a comfortable place to be. The feng shui
was all off. The sofa, for instance, was at a psychologically jarring angle
(upright was more calming), and, in her judgement, pot plants worked best
when they weren’t lying sideways across the floor.

‘Alexis, the camera,’ Bett reminded her. She pulled it from a pouch on her
laptop satchel and began taking shots of the scene, snapping as she picked

her footsteps carefully amid the mess. The only clutter-free areas were the
shelves and bookcases, because all of their contents had been scattered about
the floor. CDs lay fanned-out like fallen dominoes, next to books, DVDs and
magazines. Pictures had been pulled from the walls and left on the floor,
though Lex noted that the glass was intact on each of them. The only wall-
hung decorations remaining were glossy pin-ups in two clusters: one in the
kitchen and one next to the computer. Soccer players, tour posters, some
movie stills.

A flat-screen monitor sat on a desk by the farther of two broad windows, the
PC itself nestling underneath, surrounded by piles of blank and used printer
paper, stacked like kindling. A pale green light indicated activity.

The kitchen area was a real treat. Rice, pasta, flour, salt, breakfast cereals,
washing powder and dishwasher tablets had been emptied out on to the floor
and their containers discarded on top. Pots and pans had been pulled from
cupboards and now lolled like grounded ships upon the banks of powder and
grain. Supermarket ready meals lay around the foot of the fridge-freezer, con-
tents spilling out where the plastic film had broken, their cardboard sleeves
dotted randomly about the floor. Four bottles lay undisturbed on a wine rack
atop the work surface next to the sink, and Lex noticed also that no crockery
had been broken.

In the compact little bathroom, the contents of a mirrored cabinet had been
dumped into the basin directly below, bottles of shampoo and shower gel
tipped into the bath. Again, the shelves and surfaces were clear, including the
cistern lid, which was slightly askew.

The bedroom was the same deal. The place had been tossed, not trashed.

‘How did you find out he was missing?’ Bett asked.

Didn't you ask me this before?’

For the benefit of Miss Richardson here, and to refresh my memory.’

‘Rather undramatic, initially. He failed to turn up for work, although that
was fairly remarkable for him, I suppose. He’d seldom lost a day before that.
When the road has looked like being closed in the winter, he’s often slept
at the lab because he’d rather be stranded that end. When he didn’t call
in by midday, somebody phoned here, to no reply. Couldn’t get him on his
mobile phone, either. Then the property manager got a call from one of the
neighbours who'd noticed the door was ajar and the lock damaged. She’d
rung the bell, then stuck her head inside when there was no answer. When
she saw what she saw...’

‘And you came here yourself? Right away?’

‘I realised that Mr Fleming could have been incommunicado because he was
with the police, reporting a burglary, but if that wasn’t the case, I knew there
was no time to lose. I had to see for myself.’

‘Who spoke to the neighbours? You said nobody heard anything.’

‘| did. I mean, I didn’t go round the whole building, just, you know, next
door, above and below. Nothing.’

‘What did you tell the woman who noticed the door? She'll be wondering
why she hasn’t seen any police, to say nothing of not seeing her neighbour.’

‘I think she thought I was the police, to be honest.’

‘You didn’t tell her you were,’ Bett said, with a note of caution.

‘Oh, no. I see where youre going. No. I just didn’t tell her I wasn’t, if you
know what I mean.’

‘Sure.’

Bett knelt down and picked about among the mess. He opened a couple of
CD cases, revealing the silver discs to be in place within. Then he lifted up
one of the pictures, a photo collage.

‘This is Fleming, right?’

‘Yes. That’s him with the little girl.’

‘Not his, I assume.’

‘No. Family.’

‘Can I take this?’

‘Yes, certainly. Imean ... I don’t like giving...’

‘T understand. But so will Mr Fleming.’

‘Indeed. I’ve also got some personnel file photos of him in the car.’

‘Alexis, can you have a look at the computer?’ he ordered.

‘Yes, sir” she assented, her gratitude at having a recognised purpose only
marginally diminished by having no idea what she should be looking for.

Functionality would be a start, she decided, so she gave the mouse a wiggle
to see whether the system would wake up or required a full boot. It proved
to be the latter; the absence of fan noise had suggested this, but you could
never assume. Not every machine was cursed to sound like a Spitfire readying
for takeoff, just every machine she’d owned. She paused over the switch,
considering whether there might be a logic-bomb in the start-up folder, primed
to trash the hard disk whenever the machine was turned on; in fact merely
booting the thing up normally would obscure a few of the previous user’s
tracks. Instead, she undertook a little hardware surgery, connecting her laptop
to lift an unadulterated image of the hard disk.

That done, in the absence of any specific request from the boss, Lex went
about some basics. ‘First thing to remark is that the machine is intact,’ she
told Bett, hoping he’d respond with some form of cue. ‘They didn’t smash it
and they didn’t steal it.’

Bett said nothing, simply went about his recce; stepping slowly and pre-
cisely around the room, stopping to examine certain items, sometimes just
staring. It looked like detection by osmosis.

Lex scoped the system. She checked the boot log first to see when the
machine had last been up and for how long, then began looking deeper. The
first thing to stick out was the directory access records, denoting which folders
had been opened during the last session. The answer was most of them, right
down almost every branch of the hierarchy, even into the murkiest depths
of application sub-directory temp folders. This was not indicative of normal
usage. If it was your own machine and you couldn’t remember where a file
was, you’d use a search facility to locate it; someone would only go through
the folders manually if they weren’t sure what it was they were specifically
looking for. This was the electronic equivalent of all the open drawers and
cleared shelves elsewhere in the apartment.

‘It’s been sifted,’ she announced. ‘Systematically, from top to bottom.’

‘Care to hazard a guess at what they were looking for?’ Bett asked Willis.

‘If you mean do I think it’s to do with Marledogq, then no. He wouldn’t have
material relating to his work here.’

‘Wouldn’t or shouldn’t?’

‘Both. I mean, yes, theoretically there’s no reason why he might not have
some files relating to work, but, well, the thing with Ross is that he’s seldom
out of the place. If he wants to work on something, night times or weekends,
he stays on-site. He was there the night you hit the place, remember?’

‘ understand. But that doesn’t mean that what they were looking for wasn’t
related to Marledoq. Someone interested in Ross’s work wouldn’t necessarily
know whether he had material at home.’

‘My take is that he didn’t,’ Lex offered, warding off thoughts of a more suc-
cessful theft from Marledog of work-related data. ‘And I’d say that whatever
they were looking for, they struck out. This thing’s just a media toaster.’

‘Would you translate, please,’ Bett insisted, ‘for those of us with a less neo-
logical vocabulary.’

Fleming uses this thing for comms and entertainment, nothing else. And
he doesn’t do a lot of that either. This machine must be two years old if it’s a
day and yet the hard drive’s only about a quarter full. Mostly vanilla apps—’

Alexis,’ Bett warned.

‘Standard retail applications. The bulk of the used disk space is JPEGs, MP3s
and AV... sorry, that’s picture, music and video file formats, sir. Going by
what’s on the floor, the music’s mostly ripped from these CDs, so the PC’s just
a conduit for a portable player. The majority of the video files are archived
webcam captures; after that it’s downloaded clips, mainly soccer, going by the
tags, and they’re all in the temporary cache, nothing older than thirty days.’

‘Why?’

Files in the temp cache are automatically wiped after a while so you don’t
end up with twenty gigs of last year’s web content clogging up your HD. De-

fault setting is thirty days. It tells me this guy doesn’t tinker much with this
thing, just uses it to keep in touch. He’s got a mike here and a webcam above
the monitor, see? Archived webcam captures are all labelled the same: “mich”
then a date.’

‘His sister’s name is Michelle,’ Willis informed them.

‘Let’s see one,’ said Bett, eyeing the photo collage he’d lifted.

Lex opened the most recent file. It was small spec but decent frame-rate,
though no sound. It showed a young woman sitting with a toddler in her lap,
a slightly older child standing beside her. She urged the older kid to wave,
which she did. Junior waved too, though he was looking at his sister instead
of the camera.

‘Moving postcards from home: sis, niece and nephew. It’s the same kids in
most of his picture files, too.’

‘And you’ve transferred all these files to that laptop?’ Bett asked.

‘Yes, sir. They took up less than a quarter of his HD space. I’ll remove the
hard drive itself too. That way I can check for residual data from files that
might have been erased.’

‘You can do that?’ Willis asked.

‘Sure,’ she told him. ‘But I wouldn’t hold out for any big secrets. Like I said,
it’s a media toaster. This thing’s on light duties. He doesn’t even have any
games apart from vendor pre-installs.’

‘You'll have to forgive Alexis,’ Bett said. ‘English isn’t her first language.
Go ahead, remove the hard drive. I'll have a look on the laptop during the
flight back. Mr Willis, anything else you have by way of background would be
useful. The more we know about him, the better chance we have of working
out where he might have gone.’

‘That’s assuming where he’s gone is his own choice,’ Willis suggested.

‘Everything I’ve seen so far points to flight rather than capture,’ Bett replied.
‘Despite the mess, there’s little to suggest any of it was the result of a struggle.
No blood, no breakages. If there’d been a fight in here, one of the neighbours
would have heard something, to say nothing of taking an unwilling subject
down three flights of stairs.’

‘There wouldn’t be a fight if they took him at gunpoint.’

‘And yet if they took him at gunpoint, they wouldn’t have needed to rifle
through the place looking for whatever they were after. They could simply
have threatened to shoot him unless he told them where it was.’

‘How do we know it’s “they”?’ Lex asked. ‘Or is that just a figure of speech?’

‘It’s they,’ Bett answered. ‘Two different sets of footprints spreading that
mess from the kitchen floor. Well, four sets, actually, but I’m eliminating the
ones Mr Willis’s shoes left on a previous visit and the ones you made when
you were taking pictures. There were two of them, and Fleming wasn’t here

when they searched this place. Abduction, whether at gunpoint or not, is
about getting in and getting out as quickly and quietly as possible. Whoever
was in here took their time. They were careful, they were quiet and they
were thorough. They looked behind paintings, inside CD cases, they even
searched rice and flour hoppers. Someone spent how long looking through
his computer?’

‘Last session was forty-eight minutes.’

‘Time they knew they had, because they weren’t expecting Mr Fleming to
walk in and disturb them. They knew he was gone. They may well have been
coming to abduct him, and most plausibly at gunpoint, but when they arrived,
they discovered he’d been one step ahead. He knew they were coming for
him. It could have been mere moments’ notice — maybe something fortuitous
he saw or heard — or it could have been hours; but the main thing is, he knew
they weren’t there to sell the Watchtower. Ross Fleming ran, and not to the
police. We need to work out where, but equally important, we need to work
out from whom.’

Bett looked down at the photo collage, then around the diligently strewn
chaos of the room, before zeroing in on Willis again.

‘If I were to ask you,’ he said, ‘just off the top of your head, worst-case
scenario or merely the first thing that leaps to mind: what would you guess
this is about?’

Willis paused, sighing with discomfiture. I... I’m sorry, I hate this kind
of speculation. It seems so disrespectful, like we’re working for the tabloids,
digging up dirt.’

Lex caught a concealed glance from Bett, a brief roll of the eyes conveying
a weary but arch frustration at this squeamishness. Here was a man whose
company made instruments of violence and destruction, recoiling from a task
because it seemed impolite. Yes, Willis and her grandmother would definitely
have got along.

‘Worst-case scenario?’ Willis resumed. ‘I suppose that would have to be that
he’s been murdered. If they knew he was already dead, they’d be guaranteed
all the time they needed to search his apartment.’

‘But why?’ Bett pressed, forcing him back to the point.

1 really don’t know. The first thing that comes to mind is, well, drugs, I
suppose. I hate to say it, and it’s probably just one generation’s prejudice.’

‘And is there anything more than prejudice to support that notion?’

‘Not specifically in Ross’s case. But I’m not entirely naive in these matters.
I’ve seen a lot of very dynamic, very driven young people working with us,
working extremely long hours, sometimes in isolation. Stimulants are not
unprecedented.’

‘Is Fleming well paid? I mean, he doesn’t appear to have much of a social
life, so would a speed habit have him in that much hock?’

‘I can’t say I know the going rate for any given controlled substance, but you
make a fair point. I can’t imagine him racking up debts to dangerous people
without giving off signals that something was amiss.’

‘Drug addicts can be most resourceful at concealing their problems,’ Bett
observed, ‘but I can’t envisage the local whizz dealer quietly and meticulously
doing this to the place over an unpaid debt. “Pay up or we de-alphabetise your
CDs.” Nor would he be likely to turn up any unused drugs or unpaid cash
inside Fleming’s My Documents folder. So rack your brains a little harder, Mr
Willis, dig deep and dig dirty. What do you think this is about? What do you
fear this is about?’

Willis sighed again.

1 fear it’s about work. That’s my worst-case scenario and I'd prefer it to
transpire otherwise. I’m aware of how selfish that sounds; but if we’re digging
dirt, then I suppose I shouldn’t flinch from appearing grubby myself. I'll admit
it, ’'d be relieved if this was to do with some matter personal only to Mr
Fleming, though that wouldn’t make him any easier to replace.’

‘What was he working on?’

Willis paused, wincing a little. ‘I know this is frustrating, but that’s not
something I can freely comment upon.’

‘Can you comment on whether it would make him any kind of target? Can
you comment on whether someone might believe he had materials or infor-
mation that he could pass on via bribery or coercion?’

‘I can say this much: I brought you people in last December to tighten up
security at Marledogq precisely to prevent those possibilities. Deimos is not a
gun manufacturer launching a new line of automatic pistols. When you’re in
the business of innovation, there is nothing more potentially damaging than
industrial espionage. It’s not just that we can’t afford to suffer the theft of
blueprints or prototypes: it’s that we can’t afford to let anyone know what
we're developing full stop. If this was the pharmaceutical industry, what do
you think the other drug companies would do if they found out we were
working on a cure for an ailment they sold remedies for?’

‘You’re saying what Mr Fleming was working on poses a threat to the arms
industry?’ Bett asked, with a quiet calm that Lex had learned to recognise as
masking grave concern.

‘Of course not. But we’re developing a number of projects, any one of which
might pose a threat to someone’s profit margin, and this is not an industry
renowned for its scrupulous practices in defending the bottom line. I don’t
wish to impugn your own integrity, Mr Bett, but the fact is, this kind of infor-
mation is so sensitive that I can’t tell you what Fleming was working on just

in case his disappearance turns out not to be related to it. However, if some
of that information is already out of the box, then yes, bribery and coercion
might potentially have been applied to procure materials and information,
and yes, he is potentially a target. As would be anyone who got between him
and his pursuers.’

‘Which is really why you came to us,’ Bett stated. ‘You need people who
can look for Fleming but who are capable of watching their own backs while
they’re about it.’

‘Yes. That and the fact that if this is what it looks like, then it’s down
to a breach of your security system. I’d need to check the fine print of the
guarantee, but—

‘User error isn’t covered, Mr Willis. No security set-up can offer contingency
against individual indiscretions on the inside. If sensitive information got out
of Marledog, it wasn’t because an intruder walked in and took it. For one
thing, the intruder would need to know there was something specific worth
looking for in the first place.’

At this point, Lex was grateful to be under the desk disconnecting the hard
drive, her colour-drained face and reflexively gawping eyes hidden from view.
Up until then, she hadn’t been absolutely sure. Marledoq was a huge place.
Fleming had already noticed something was amiss and had set off the alarms,
so he could have tailed her, or been hiding out near where she happened
to appear: just because he’d snuck up on her there didn’t mean that was
specifically his lab or his machine, she’d told herself. But now she could have
no reasonable doubt that it had been his machine, and that this was therefore
the second time she was swiping data belonging to the same man.

‘We'll track down Fleming for you,’ Bett assured Willis. ‘But in the meantime
you'd better ask yourself who knew enough to set this in motion. If you’ve got
a leak, then you'd better find it fast, and don’t trust anyone until then.’

‘I won’t, Mr Bett. I never do. Occupational hazard, I suppose.’

‘Personally, I'd classify it under Health and Safety.’

Lex couldn’t decide whether it was scarier flying with her eyes open or closed.
Open, she had the full benefit of watching the sea pass so close beneath that
they had to be leaving a wake; closed, there were the combined anxieties of
vividly imagining the same sight anyway and of not being able to see disaster
coming. Like it would make any difference.

They were heading for a trawler, collision course, she was certain. She
assumed Rebekah could see it with her bare eyes as well as with the radar, but
she didn’t appear to have imminent plans for evasive action. Lex wanted to
say something; actually, she wanted to scream something, but could tell from

Rebekah’s minutely detectable smirk that this might be a counter-productive
action.

They passed directly over the trawler, which turned out to be further below
than Lex had gauged, but not by much.

‘Rebekah,’ she said with Bett-like overstated calm, ‘I just saw what that
fisherman was having for lunch. He had a mug of coffee and a triangular
sandwich. I could see what shape his sandwich was. We are too fucking low.’

Alexis, you have got to chill,’ Rebekah responded, grinning with despicable
pleasure at her passenger’s dismay. ‘Did I hit anything yet? Did we ditch and
I missed it?’

‘No, but you’d only need to do it once.’

Believe me, I’ve flown lower than this at, like, five times the speed.’

Lex turned her head to stare at Rebekah, fully taking her eyes off the water
for the first time since they left dry land.

‘What the hell kind of helicopter flies five times as fast as this?’

‘Oh, it wasn’t a helicopter. I guess it might not be the best time to admit
this, but I’m not actually a helicopter pilot. Not licensed, anyway. I mean, I
can fly this thing; hell, you could fly this thing.’

‘So what are you licensed to fly? Oh shit,’ she said, making a connection.
‘Fighter planes. You’re USAF, aren’t you?’

‘Well, that’s my personal business, isn’t it,’ Rebekah stated, reminding Lex
of the unwritten protocol.

Tm sorry.’

‘Tt’s okay. But for what it’s worth, I’m not USAF.’

Rebekah had grown considerably less withdrawn as the months passed,
though she remained the most private when it came to what had brought
her under Bett’s wing. Everyone else was periodically given to less guarded
allusions or even, occasionally, outright admissions, but, to be fair, these had
all come after having been around a lot longer. Lex, for one, had taken her
own time to accept that it would make no odds to her fortunes or reputation if
the others knew of her place in the annals of either hackerdom or international
diplomacy. However, even after reaching that understanding, she’d still felt
protective of her past for reasons she couldn’t quite nail down. Perhaps it was
simply due to it being the episode that had made her most scared in her entire
life, and exposing it at all tapped into a little of that fear.

Rebekah was markedly more relaxed after Marledog, her first real mission,
though it had hardly been the most taxing exercise. Perhaps it had helped
for her to have a defined, indeed indispensable, role, in order to feel she was
somewhere she could belong. She’d grown conspicuously less jumpy about
overhead aircraft too, a trait Lex had considered all the more curious once
she learned what the role of Transport Manager truly entailed. Lex had come

to realise that this nervy reaction was not in fact startlement at the sound of
the engines, but simply that the sound acted as a prompt to be looking over
her shoulder. Like Lex, and now like Ross Fleming, Rebekah had run from
something, and in the place she’d run from there must have been airplanes.

It wasn’t, she now insisted, the US Air Force. So where the hell else would
she be flying jets at five times the speed of this chopper?

Then Lex remembered some of the illicit data Bett had taught her to sift for.
A Harrier jump jet had gone missing, the US considering the embarrassment
more costly than the hardware, and thus concealing the incident. It had been
a few months back, just about the time, now she came to think of it, that Bett
introduced his latest recruit.

Jump jets flew off aircraft carriers.

I’m not USAF.

No, girl. You’re a swabby. And you’re damned well used to flying above
water.

Lex sighed upon making this deduction, her posture slumping as the tension
lifted a little.

‘You finally chilling?’ Rebekah asked, taking note.

‘No. I’m practising holding my breath for when we inevitably splash down
and go under.’

‘Come on, admit it, you’re starting to dig the ride. Beats the shit out of
Space Mountain, don’t it?’

{ think I’d be enjoying it more if we were on the way back.’

‘ hear ya,’ Rebekah replied. ‘But you need to chill about that too. Bett’s
got faith in you, and he doesn’t strike me as leaving much to chance and just
hoping you do okay.’

‘Sure, but that would be a bigger vote of confidence if I thought Bett’s judge-
ment was flawless.’

‘You think his judgement is flawed because he has a higher estimation of
you than you have of yourself?’

It’s not his estimation of me that I’ve got reservations about. And I don’t
believe I’m the only one. Nobody’s said anything, but...’

‘But they’re thinking it, I know,’ Rebekah agreed, nodding. ‘He’s one hell of
a smart guy, and I’d hate to have him as an enemy. Jeez, being on his side is
hard enough. But yeah, I'll hold my hand up, I’ve got my concerns about this
one. He’s normally got all the bases covered, so I can’t help worrying that this
time he’s putting all his eggs in one basket.’

Lex managed a small laugh at this.

‘What’s funny?’

‘Oh, just an alternative perspective. Remember what I was telling you about
the Airplane Rule?’

‘Yeah, two engines means twice as much can go wrong.’

‘Well, there’s a corresponding argument that the best plan is to put all your
eggs in one basket — you just gotta make sure it’s a really good basket.’

‘So maybe Bett’s judgement isn’t so flawed after all.’

‘We'll soon see.’

She remembered Bett sitting opposite her in the cabin most of the flight
home, poring over the laptop like it was a dossier, formulating, processing. If
he’d been a computer, his drive access light would have been blinking faster
than the beat of a hummingbird’s wings. Every so often he had a question,
but it felt like he was accessing her just as functionally and impersonally as
he was accessing Fleming’s copied C-Drive; his own pronouncements not so
much thinking out loud as the verbal equivalent of printing a hard copy of
what his brain generated.

‘Your take on Fleming,’ he’d demanded, for instance.

My... 1...’

‘Come on, first impressions, one word, no hesitation.’

‘Okay, geek. Geek like me.’

‘Geek. Nerd.’

‘No, just geek. Geek isn’t necessarily pejorative, in certain contexts. Nerd
is.’

‘Do geeks do a lot of drugs?’

Tm not saying they don’t, and I can’t speak for the genus, but Fleming’s
drug of choice wasn’t proscribed. You saw Chassignan, sir. You don’t settle
there for the nightlife. He’s a lab-rat. He lives for work.’

‘My thoughts too. So what else does a geek want? I'll rephrase that: what
would tempt you enough to go behind my back in search of it?’

Lex’s mouth fell open, but no words spilled out.

‘Money?’ he suggested, closing the trap door again.

‘Two years in that little apartment? I didn’t get a picture of a guy after a
fast buck. He’s young, driven, probably brilliant. Money would come in time.’

‘Yes. Willis didn’t tell us his salary, but, let’s face it, it’s the weapons business.
You could say he’s already sold out, and yet his motivations did not appear to
be material. If he was trading secrets, it was coercion, not bribery. In which
case, why not go to the police?’

Lex offered no answer, knowing none was being sought.

‘Why did they shut down his PC?’ Bett had later asked, yanking Lex back
from window-staring introspection as to whether they could possibly get to
the bottom of this without her own crucial role in it emerging.

‘Huh?’

‘Why bother? They didn’t go putting anything back on shelves or in drawers,
so why power down when they were done looking there?’

‘To hide what they were looking for. Shutting down wipes certain temporary
data from the OS, sorry, operating system. They went through the hierarchy
manually, but, I’d guess, only after running automated searches. The key-
words in those search strings would have been recoverable if they’d left the
machine running.’

‘And are they still recoverable? You said you could restore deleted files.’

‘Sure,’ she said. ‘Of course, if you really want to know what they were
looking for, the quickest solution would be to download the files from the FTP
server where I stashed them,’ she didn’t add. Instead, she told him: ‘They
opened his email application and they checked through all recently generated
text documents, too. They wanted to know who he’d been in touch with and
what about.’

‘They won't have found much, going by what I’ve seen. Willis can rest easy
about that. It was, as you say, a comms device, a media... what was it?’

‘Toaster. Though, to be honest, until I can get a closer look at this hard drive,
we really won’t know what they found. And even if I recover deleted files,
there’ll be no way of knowing who deleted them: Fleming or his pursuers.’

‘Granted, but I think this has to be as much about the man as the motive.
They were after more than secrets. He wouldn’t run just to keep Marledoq
data out of their hands. Otherwise the first place he’d run to would be his
employers.’

‘Unless he got into this mess because he’d been up to something he didn’t
think his employers would be too happy about,’ Lex suggested, with acutely
vivid personal insight.

‘Well worth bearing in mind, yes. But his value to his employers is key. Willis
came down to handle everything himself, didn’t delegate. That should tell us
something. He didn’t come out and say that Fleming was irreplaceable, but
Tll wager it’s close to the truth. The data probably isn’t worth much without
the man. To come back to Willis’s pharmaceuticals analogy, if it was my drug
firm whose remedy was going to be rendered obsolete, I wouldn’t resort to
dirty tactics merely to halt its development. If I was going that far, I’d want to
steal the development for myself outright.’

‘And to do that you’d need more than the secret formula.’

‘Call it extreme headhunting. And the inducements won’t be options on
stock and the promise of a corner office. They’ll be the option to stay alive
and the promise of removing the electrodes.’

‘Shit. I guess we’d better make damn sure we get to him first.’

‘Indeed. And make no mistake, Alexis, we’ll be competing with some very
dangerous people to do so. People who already have a head start, so we’re
going to need an edge of our own.’

Lex wondered what could give them an edge against people Bett described
as dangerous. She’d never heard him say that before, no matter what they
were dealing with. These people are organised, he’d warn. Ruthless, para-
noid, trigger-happy, efficient, vigilant, well-trained. Never dangerous. Given
that he was easily the scariest person she had ever met, Lex seriously didn’t
like the idea of taking on anyone he considered a worry. No shit, they’d want
an edge.

She was going to ask what he had in mind, but knew that Bett was never
inviting a cue. If he knew, he’d announce. He returned to his scrutiny of
the laptop and the hard-copy files Willis supplied, nodding occasionally as he
flicked through them, sometimes staring out of the window at the blue sky
and the clouds below. Then, a while later, he looked up from his reflections
and spoke.

‘We’re going to need to bring in a specialist.’

‘In what?’ she couldn’t help but enquire. Given that they had computers,
weapons, electronics, surveillance, air transport and God knows what else
covered, she was genuinely puzzled as to what Bett thought they needed to
‘outsource’.

‘We need an operative with expert knowledge in the field,’ he told her.
‘Someone fearless, someone who can adapt and improvise, someone resource-
ful and cunning, stoical in the face of pain and danger, ruthlessly uncompro-
mising in pursuit of the objective, and utterly merciless in eliminating anyone
who stands in the way.’

‘Tall order. Who do you have in mind?’


Ride, then
Jane looked at the woman before her: familiar, but not entirely recognisable,
no stranger, but not a particularly welcome sight either. She couldn’t honestly
say who she was expecting, but was inevitably disappointed every time this
hacket shambles showed up, and this hacket shambles showed up every time.
Impostor. Where the hell did you come from? she wanted to ask her. What
did you do with the girl who used to come around?

When did you last see her? the impostor would rightly reply. Was it re-
cently?

No, she’d have to admit. It’s been a while. So long, I can’t remember.

There were ads all over the Sunday supplements boasting about the techno-
logical properties accommodated within flat-screen plasma tellies just a cou-
ple of inches deep, but they had a long way to go before they caught up
with the average bathroom mirror. Hers was only half a centimetre thick, yet
provided clarity of picture that was sharp to the point of cruelty, and boasted
Residual Image Sustainment, a capability far in advance of anything Sony con-
sidered state-of-the-art. This was the feature whereby no matter how many
times you looked at yourself, you saw the same face, apparently unaltered
and unchanging over years and even decades. Unfortunately, this feature very
occasionally went on the blink and the glass presented you with an image of
someone far older than you were expecting, providing a startling comparison
with the face you once knew. It never lasted for long, but when it happened,
it reset the system and only showed you the older face from then on. You got
used to that one, and the RIS meant the older face didn’t appear to change
much either, but this was merely a special effect. An optical illusion.

Jane looked at the greying hair, hanging dry and limp where it wasn’t hap-
hazardly kinked. She saw the deep-etched lines around her eyes and her
mouth, once-taut skin draped gauntly over cheekbones like ill-worn uphol-
stery. The mirror never showed this happening, merely proved that it had.
She just couldn’t remember when. Further down she saw off-white under-
wear that had been through the machine a thousand times with Tom’s socks,
the closest thing to intimacy between them in an age. Behind her on the bed
lay trousers and a top that were among three outfits in permanent rotation,

75

pulled from the wardrobe because they were the first to come to hand, es-
chewing conscious selection because that merely reminded her of the paucity
of what she had to choose from.

Her hair was seriously in need of colouring and a whole lot more TLC be-
sides. Merely some committed effort of a morning would be a start. Those
straighteners Michelle had bought her for Christmas — she’d used them a cou-
ple of times over the holidays and had been pleased with the results, but they’d
lain in a drawer since Ne’erday. It wasn’t even like she could claim she was
too busy or in a rush to get out of the door each day. There just never seemed
any reason to make the effort, which was why her visits to the hairdresser had
grown further and further apart. Who was going to notice? Not Tom, anyway.
Once upon a time there’d been a punk named Blue Bell who dressed just for
herself, but these days it seemed Jane Fleming was even less critical or at all
noticing of her appearance than her husband.

There hadn’t come a day when she consciously decided, sod it, ’m past
caring about clothes and hairstyles and make-up, but the evidence suggested
she’d reached that position nonetheless. She and Catherine used to have a
good bitch about the Bothwell ladies of a certain age, with their panstick foun-
dation, their gold shoes and their Couture d’Agneau designer suits, lunching in
a tiny village whose main street nonetheless housed six hairdressers. Scornful
of the aesthetic that equated all beauty with youth, Jane had always believed
a woman should aspire to look good at her age, not for her age. The woman in
the mirror, however, couldn’t even charitably be described as looking either.
Maybe she should embrace the future by investing in a twinset and pearls.
At least it would be a consciously constructed image, not simply a pot-luck
payout from the bedroom’s MFI equivalent of a one-armed bandit.

If there was a human-interest upbeat kicker at the end of the mirror’s daily
bulletin, it was that what lay below the neck and under her clothes was in
decent shape. This, she gloomily predicted, only meant she’d soon be one of
those lean and birdlike old women rather than the round and dumpy model.
Jane had always been skinny, her slimness accentuated by being compara-
tively tall, but her father always put her figure down to the fact that she
‘couldn’t sit at peace for five minutes’, constantly driven by a compulsive, ner-
vous energy to forever find something useful to be getting on with. And if
there was nothing useful to be getting on with, she’d get on with something
anyway, such as hoovering the hall carpet for the third time that day.

There was, however, a difference between being slim and being fit, as she’d
learned the hard way when she joined a gym a couple of years back. She
remembered thinking she was going to spew all over the lycra-wrapped-sinew-
with-a-ponytail in front of her at that first aerobics session, and had been so
sore in so many places afterwards that she’d been unable to eat more than

a mouthful of dinner before retiring to bed for a painfully sleepless night.
Catherine had bought her a month’s trial subscription as a birthday present
and, for a few days after, Jane had been thinking of polite ways to say thanks
but no thanks with regard to joining her in long-term membership. But, once
the aches subsided and she was satisfied she’d suffered no permanent harm,
she found herself surprisingly determined to return, and persevered because
she believed this was precisely the kind of thing she should be able to handle
if she was indeed young enough to change her life.

She wasn’t so sure she’d have made it back for that second session if she’d
joined after learning that us grannies ken the score. But then maybe next time
she thought of Margaret at the checkout, she ought to remind herself there
were women and men ten years younger alongside her at the boxercise or
body-pump classes each week, many of them visibly feeling the pace more
than she was.

The slow-puncture to her pride in this particular achievement was that
while it made her feel physically healthy, she nonetheless couldn’t shake the
lingering notion that you should be fit for something, rather than as an end in
itself. Being more lithely capable of dusting in awkward spots, or being able
to vault around kitchen units in order to avoid stepping on a newly mopped
floor seemed a slight return for hours of arduous training.

Jane went into the kitchen and crouched down to have a look at what the
fridge had to offer. There was some leftover pasta that would do; she only
wanted a bite, as she was going to the gym and then on to a late lunch with
Catherine at the Grape Vine. She stretched some cling film over the small
bowl of penne, taking care to keep her fingers clear of the box’s serrated
plastic strip, one of the most highly lethal cutting edges known to man. It
could slice effortlessly through human flesh, and in fact could probably saw
through just about any material if properly applied. The only thing it wasn’t
much cop at cutting was cling film, but no design was ever perfect.

She placed the bowl into the microwave and gave it a spin on full power.
God knows how anyone ever got by before these things. She thought of her
mother’s kitchen, everyone sitting down for a regimented meal because it only
got served hot once, and, with a grimace, remembered oven-dried reheats (to
say nothing of her older brothers eating the cold remnants of fish suppers
washed down with Irn-Bru when they got up around noon after a late Satur-
day night). She wondered whether the Christian Right had ever pilloried the
role of the microwave in disintegrating the nuclear family unit. Maybe they
could boycott Comet in the name of Jesus, Mary and the Daily Mail.

Ross had explained to her how they worked, something to do with the mi-
crowaves causing water molecules to vibrate, but Jane reckoned she had her
own, more practical command of the principle. As far as she could make out,

the microwave oven super-heated crockery until it required asbestos gloves to
touch it, and as a by-product of this process, any food on the said crockery
would be warmed to just above room temperature.

She poured herself a glass of grapefruit juice and was reaching for the oven
gloves when her doorbell rang. As she walked down the hall to answer it,
she looked out of the front window through the open living-room door to see
Michelle’s Espace parked in front of the driveway. She also saw a black Vectra
parked a few doors down on the other side of the street, the engine off but
the driver still in his seat, looking at a folder or clipboard. She felt her hackles
rise. She was sure she’d seen another one prowling around earlier, which was
why she wanted to check outside before responding to the bell. Oily lizards
asking you to change your gas billing to an electricity firm or vice versa. Very
slimy, very persistent. ‘So you're telling me you don’t want to save money?
Seems a bit daft to me,’ one of them once said. She had come very close to
heading back to the kitchen and fetching the basin full of dirty dishwater to
chuck at him.

She opened the front door and was almost knocked down by the unexpected
impact of Rachel diving into a hug around her thighs; unexpected because
she should have been in nursery. Michelle was behind her, on the path, with
Thomas in her arms. Jane reached out to take him for a kiss and a cuddle,
but he shrank back and whimpered, as he did when he was out of sorts or just
woken up. Michelle looked harassed, not managing much of a smile by way
of a greeting.

‘Gran!’ Rachel shouted delightedly. ‘Nursery’s closed. Is that good?’

Jane laughed, but it didn’t look good for Michelle.

‘Come on in, all of you,’ Jane said.

Tm sorry, Mum, I’m in a bit of a guddle,’ Michelle explained redundantly.
‘They’ve had a burst pipe at the nursery. Just as well I was off today anyway —
I was supposed to be taking Thomas to the dentist’s and then to get his feet
measured for new shoes. Turns out ’ll be taking him to the doctor’s as well.
He’s a wee bit hot, just not himself. Probably only a wee bug, but with us
going away at the weekend, I want to make sure he’s not brewing anything
nasty.’

‘Do you want me to take him? It’s no bother.’

‘Not at all. You’ve seen what he’s like when he’s a bit ill — won’t let go of
me. Can’t imagine the dentist’s is going to be a barrel of laughs, but it took
ages to get an appointment that coincides with my day off. Otherwise I’d have
cancelled.’

‘So do you want me to keep Rachel here while you ...?’

‘Do you mind? I’m really sorry it’s such short notice.’

‘Not at all. It’s no bother.’

‘Are you sure? Did you have plans?’

‘No, no,’ Jane told her, grateful that her gym bag was still upstairs on her
bed, and not lying in the hall next to the front door. It wasn’t a vote of
confidence in her outfit that it didn’t announce ‘lunch date’ to Michelle, but
then anything she wore out to lunch with Catherine would look frumpy by
comparison. She’d wait until Michelle was gone before phoning Catherine
to say she couldn’t make it. Jane had been there often enough to know a
harassed mum could do without feelings of guilt and obligation on top of
everything else. It was one of the more constructive ways in which grannies
ken’t the score.

It was no great loss. She got out to lunch with Catherine every couple of
weeks or so, and she generally went to evening sessions at the gym these days
anyway. It would have been more of a blow if she’d had to cancel her plans for
the next day, when she was down to do some voluntary work at an assistance
centre for asylum seekers. She’d been going there two, sometimes three days
a week, as many hours as she could spare, for just over a month. Mainly she
worked the phones, chasing and coordinating donations of food, clothing and
furniture, as well as helping those struggling with English to fill in the masses
of paperwork.

She’d done voluntary work in the past, when she didn’t have paying jobs to
occupy her, but her duties as a grandmother had always got in the way. Both
of Michelle’s kids were in nursery now, and though she knew there would
still be emergencies such as this, they were likely to be fewer and further be-
tween. Places like the asylum centre needed you to be dependable, no matter
how much or how little time you said you could spare, and just because they
weren't paying her didn’t mean she owed them less than her full commitment.

‘Do you want me to bring Rachel over to yours later, then? Tea-time?’ Jane
asked.

‘Och, no, I'll come and collect her.’

‘It’s no bother’

‘No, honestly. I’ll only need a couple of hours.’

‘Can we go to Kaos Kottage, Gran?’ Rachel asked.

‘No, Rachel,’ Michelle interjected. ‘Gran’s got things to do. You'll have to be
a good girl and play here for a wee while.’

‘Aw, but Mum...’

‘ don’t mind taking her.’

‘I know, but she shouldn’t just ask the minute she’s in the door.’

‘Ach, she’s only a wean. I’d have probably suggested it anyway. Looks like it
might rain. That would get us out the house, at least — it’s indoors.’

‘Yes!’ Rachel celebrated. ‘That’s brrrilliant. I love Kaos Kottage.’

‘Well, tell you what, Mum, I’ll meet you there once I’ve done my rounds, and
Yl take Rachel home after that. I can go to the chemist’s in the supermarket
next door if Thomas needs an antibiotic.’

‘Sure. Just take whatever time you need. I’ll meet you there, when? About
three?’

‘Two should be plenty of time.’

‘Well, don’t rush. I’ll take Rachel over there in a wee while and I'll see you
when I see you.’

‘Thanks, Mum. And again, I’m really sorry to just dump on you like this.’

‘Not at all. Do you want a wee cuppa before you go? A biscuit or something
for Thomas?’

‘No, he’s not touching a thing at the moment. Only milk. I think I'll just get
my skates on. I was lucky to get a doctor’s appointment, so I'd better not be
late.’

Michelle left again without having ventured further than the downstairs
hall, and without Jane getting even a kiss from Thomas, who was clinging on
to his mum like a baby ape on a wildlife documentary. Jane watched Michelle
return to her car and strap Thomas into his child-seat, staying in the doorway,
with Rachel peeking around her legs, hoping against probability that she’d
get a wave from the wee man as they pulled away. She didn’t. Instead, she
could tell he’d started crying, quite probably because they hadn’t stayed at
his gran’s even though he hadn’t wanted anything to do with her. The black
Vectra pulled away shortly after them, executing a three-point turn to head
off in the same direction. Just as well for him, as Jane had been considering
getting Rachel to fill her potty, never mind dirty dishwater.

She closed the door.

‘Now, what are we going to get up to?’ she asked.

Rachel just grinned.

Looking after Rachel was an easy shift. It would have been a lot tougher
had it been Thomas she was left alone with for a few hours, without the
distraction and assistance of his older sister. There was a big difference in
that year between them, Thomas still sufficiently early in his toddlerhood to
occasionally remind her he was little more than a walking baby. Everyone
talked about the joys and the hardships, but for most of the first three years,
as Jane remembered from Ross and Michelle’s infancies, motherhood mainly
consisted of gaping aeons of numbing tedium punctuated by sudden, heart-
stopping moments of panic. After that, the weans got a lot more interesting
and far easier to handle. You could negotiate with them, for one thing, which
was how she procured Rachel’s cooperative assent that when they went to
Kaos Kottage later, it would be via Sainsbury’s (it being crucial that you saw
your side of the deal honoured before the welching little buggers got theirs).

The supermarket was actually one place Thomas tended to be better be-
haved than his big sister, as he was usually content to sit and watch the shelves
and shoppers go by. Rachel, these days, insisted she was too big to go in the
kiddy-seat, and so trailed around hanging on to the trolley, deluding herself
that she was the one pushing it. This more than doubled how long it took to
get in and out with even a handful of items, but one thing Jane couldn’t com-
plain about in her life was that she was short of time. It was also far preferable
to wrestling a struggling wee madam into the trolley-seat and listening to her
whines and protests echo around the aisles.

On this occasion, Rachel was impeccably behaved, possibly because even a
trip to the supermarket with her gran was a result when she’d been expecting
another day at nursery. Impeccable behaviour, of course, didn’t mean the trip
passed without incident. Jane had sat her shoulder bag on the unoccupied
kiddy-seat as she guided the trolley and its hanger-on around the store. Her
non-passenger being such a stated impediment to swift progress, she occa-
sionally parked the thing and told Rachel to stay put while she nipped further
along an aisle to quickly retrieve an item from a shelf. The milk shelves were
always busy with shoppers, so she’d left Rachel a few yards back, next to the
cheese, while she grabbed a two-litre carton. Milk in hand, she turned back
to see a young woman stretching across Rachel and the trolley to reach some
Parmesan.

‘Let me get that out of your way,’ Jane said, hastening back.

‘It’s no problem, honestly,’ the girl replied. She sounded American, which
made her pretty exotic in EK. ‘I don’t mean to hurry you.’

‘Lady dropped her phone,’ Rachel said. ‘It’s in your bag, Gran. Let’s phone
Mummy.’

‘Have you?’ Jane asked.

The girl hurriedly patted a pocket and produced a mobile, glancing at it
with relief. ‘No, pleased to say. Gave me a fright, though.’

‘She likes to keep everyone on their toes,’ Jane remarked. ‘Don’t you?’

‘She dropped her phone. Ring, ring. Ring, ring.’

‘Report status.’

‘Pardon? Oh, d’accord.’

‘Yes, they speak English here. English, remember?’

‘Shoh thang.’

‘Your accent is a major point of witness identification. Bear that in mind.’

Difficult to get by with just mime. I could try a Scottish accent.’

‘I fear that would be an even greater point of witness identification. So, to
repeat, report status.’

‘Status is I have the vehicle in sight, two car lengths ahead, still in the car
park. They’ve just left the supermarket and are indicating right.’

‘Two car lengths is good. Just don’t get close enough to arouse suspicion.’

Tm not tracking a professional here. Nothing is going to arouse suspicion.
Ordinary people do not expect to be tailed. Have you ever travelled with a
child in the car? She’s got enough distraction to keep her thoughts off who’s
in the rear-view mirror.’

‘So what happened in the supermarket? You said ...’

‘ know. I thought I might have an opportunity, but it was too risky.’

‘Understood. But the longer we wait ...’

‘The more risk we may have to take, I know. But I assure you, it wasn’t
right, not when pursuit is a factor. I’m still queuing to get out of this car park.
Are you still where you said last?’

‘Yes. Ready to move out.’

‘Oh, but wait wait wait. This looks promising. Yes. D’accord.’

‘What?’

‘She’s headed for, em, I don’t know what you’d call it. An indoor play-
ground. ‘Kaos Kottage’. Lots of cars outside, looks busy. Movement, crowd,
distraction. Could be ideal.’

‘Roger that. Where do you want me?’

‘Stay where you are. Seclusion for the vehicle switch is worth more than
shortening possible pursuit time.’

‘Okay. Standing by.’

Rachel was bouncing up and down in her car-seat as Jane pulled her Civic
into the road leading to Kaos Kottage, the wee one having caught sight of it
as soon as they came over the brow of the hill. It was hard to miss, being the
size of an aircraft hangar, its colourful sign huge enough to be recognisable
from the main road two hundred yards away, and no doubt, therefore, the
occasion of a million tantrums as kids were driven past on the way to less
desired destinations. Rachel had got into quite an energetic rhythm by the
time they neared the car park, though it was unlikely to prove a significant
draw on her energy reserves.

‘Boing, boing, Kaos Kottage, boing, boing, Kaos Kottage,’ she chanted.

Parking was side-by-side either flank of a cul-de-sac that ran in front of the
hangar, ending at a low-rise concrete warehouse she presumed to belong to
the abutting Safeway, recently usurped by the new Sainsbury’s as her super-
market of choice. She couldn’t see any spaces, which was bad news. She’d
have to turn, go back around the roundabout and then down the other side
of the hill to the corner of the supermarket car park remotest from the store
but closest to the play-house. From there, a short path led directly to the

cul-de-sac, so it wasn’t the distance that was the issue. It was the fact that
a full car park meant a full house, which meant her ears would be ringing
far worse than if she’d been to see Motorhead. A few of the cars might be-
long to customers at the adjoining hairdressing salon, but it would be a tiny
ratio, even smaller than the corresponding proportion of floorspace the two
businesses incongruously occupied within the cavernous building. Jane had
always wondered about the juxtaposition, what conglomerate economy they
were thinking about, or whether they were thinking at all. Maybe the idea was
that a pair of young mums could take turns amid the pandemonium while the
other enjoyed a bit of adult pampering. The flaw was that it was a bum deal
if you got first shift in the salon, given what your hair could look like when
you emerged from the indoor jungle.

She drove into the cul-de-sac, intending to U-turn on the T-shaped apron at
the end, but before she got that far she noticed someone pull out at her back,
right in front of the doors.

‘We're in luck,’ she told Rachel, before reversing a dozen yards or so and
swinging the Civic neatly backwards into the vacated space.

She spotted Michelle’s Renault over on the other side and checked her
watch. It was just coming up for two. She wasn’t late, but she had intended
to be here a good bit earlier. Who knew where the time went? One minute
it was eleven o’clock; she’d made Rachel some lunch and then been coerced
into playing at tea-parties with every non-breakable utensil in the kitchen, and
whoosh, two hours had evaporated.

She held Rachel’s hand tightly after lifting her out of the Civic. Rachel
was straining on her arm, desperate to get across to the play-house, and the
possibility of oncoming traffic would not be uppermost in her little mind. Jane
did an exaggerated demonstration of looking left, right and left again, before
declaring it safe to proceed. A man walked briskly past on the other side,
approaching from the far end of the cul-de-sac. He reached the door a few
seconds before them but neglected to hold it open.

Jane had to stop herself muttering anything that Rachel might repeat, deny-
ing herself from even observing ‘what a rude man’, as she knew he’d be di-
rectly in front of them at the reception desk.

Oh well, let he who is without sin, she thought. He was probably running
late to pick someone up, juggling several commitments at once. She’d been
there herself, so stressed over the kids that you lose all perspective until a
three-second wait holding a door for someone becomes an unaffordable delay.

The noise came at her as she held open the glass door for Rachel. It was
muted by a further wall of glass beyond the foyer, but this merely served to
emphasise what level of volume was being contained. A tug on the next set of
glass double doors unleashed it. Bedlam.

The reception counter was flanked on either side by magnetically locked,
waist-high gates, entrance on the left, exit on the right. The staff noted your
surname and number of kids as they took your money, checking the details off
on the way out before they let you leave. Given how hard it was to keep track
of the little daredevils once they were inside the place, it provided a welcome
reassurance to the adults that their charges couldn’t escape, particularly so
given that staff often deserted the reception counter to provide assistance
elsewhere. The downside, as Michelle had joked, was that you couldn’t leave
any behind, either.

A woman was edging a double-wide pushchair through the entrance gate as
Jane and Rachel came in, leaving Mr Unchivalrous at the front of the queue.
Jane, as ever, had to restrain Rachel from scurrying forward and ramming the
barrier.

‘Are you together?’ the girl behind the counter asked.

The man turned briefly to glance at the pair of them. ‘No,’ he said. ‘I am
meeting someone inside. My wife — she is already here.’ He sounded foreign,
possibly French, though it was hard to make out much above the din coming
from the play area.

‘The name?’ she asked.

He looked past the receptionist for a moment and waved, though Jane
didn’t see at whom. The girl looked back inside also. As she did, the man
glanced at the register-sheet lying atop the counter. He put his index finger
down on the clipboard. ‘Mackie,’ he stated. He put a hand into his trouser
pocket and proffered a fiver.

‘Oh, no, we just charge for the children,’ the girl explained, smiling.

‘Okay,’ he said.

She hit a button under the desk and buzzed him through.

Jane, a seasoned visitor, had the exact change ready in her hand.

‘Hello again,’ the girl said. ‘Fleming, isn’t it?’

Jane nodded, managing a slightly bashful smile. Other people got recog-
nised by the staff at their local, their favourite restaurant, maybe their golf
club. Her face was her passport in supermarkets and soft-play centres.

She kept hold of Rachel (with some difficulty, it had to be said) once they
were beyond the gate as she wanted her to note where Granny was sitting be-
fore haring off into the multicoloured jungle. Jane was having trouble enough
spotting Michelle in the throng. The accompanying adults were mainly ac-
commodated around rectangular picnic-style tables with built-in seats, though
there were also a few round tables with individual chairs, as well as benches
hugging the walls. Every last one of them appeared to be taken, with the cor-
ner housing the snack bar particularly mobbed. The main attraction was an
enormous, labyrinthine climbing structure combining ramps, ladders, chutes,

tunnels, webbing, ropes and swings. Underneath it there was space for pits
full of soft balls. There was also a bouncy castle and a cushioned, miniature
adventure zone for the smallest visitors. Rachel’s experiences of the place had
begun down there, but she had soon graduated — an initially heart-stopping
experience as adults were not permitted (and seldom physically able anyway)
to accompany the kids beyond ground level. Once your little one took off up
that first ramp or ladder, it was out of your hands, which you would there-
after be needing to cover your eyes as you watched through your fingers. It
was scary enough when the place was quiet, but with kids swarming all over
the structure like ants, you just had to take a seat, maybe grab a coffee, and
simply hope your wee treasure reappeared at some point.

‘Mummy!’ Rachel called out, zeroing in instinctively as Jane continued to
scan the tables.

Michelle was kneeling down on the foam flooring of the toddler zone, stay-
ing close to Thomas, who was scrambling the wrong way up a ramp that led
into a pit full of soft balls. Rachel bounded over to her mum, slaloming ta-
bles and benches, then gave her a brief hug before tearing off up a cushioned
staircase. A man stepped across Jane’s path to lift a proffered baby from his
breast-feeding partner, and when he stepped back out of the way, Rachel had
disappeared from sight.

‘Miraculous recovery?’ Jane asked, indicating Thomas.

Michelle looked up.

‘Hi, Mum. Yeah, bloody typical. He perked up about ten minutes after we
left you. By the time we were in the doctor’s waiting room, he was bouncing
off the walls. Then I’ve to stand there going: “Well, he was looking a wee bit
hangy earlier on, Doctor.”

‘Och, the doctor will have seen that often enough,’ Jane assured her. ‘You
and Ross were both masters of the two-hour fever.’

Jane looked at Thomas and waved. He smiled and waved back, causing him
to lose his grip on the slope. He slid back down into the balls with a giggle,
which confirmed a return to full fitness. Any hint of feeling sorry for himself
would have turned that little setback into a major trauma.

A table became free soon after as an elephantine pair of women vacated
with an equally rotund brood.

“Must be genetic,’ Michelle whispered. Jane knew Michelle was trying to get
a rise out of her, provoke her disapproval, but she wasn’t biting. She didn’t
like to dwell on whether Michelle’s bitchy streak was a genuine reaction to
her own chronic preaching of tolerance, respect and general politeness. The
more benign explanation was that it proved Michelle had absorbed all of the
above and that the joke was in knowing her comments were unacceptable,
but as far as Jane was concerned, the jury was still out. The only thing it had

ruled on was that you didn’t stop worrying about your children’s upbringing
even when they were bringing up children of their own.

She circled the supermarket car park once more, following the one-way sys-
tem until she reached the furthest corner, which abutted the cul-de-sac. The
rear of the blue Civic was visible through the slatted wooden fence, unlikely
to be going anywhere for a while, even in the implausible event that the driver
had gone into the little hair salon. Lex picked a space further up the slope,
with a clearer view of the play-house’s front doors, reversed into position and
killed the engine.

She reached across to the passenger-side footwell and lifted a briefcase on
to the seat. From it she removed the nine-millimetre and silencer attachment,
screwing the two together in her lap. Both parts were for ‘insurance’. She
hated the idea of using the gun, but knew that if it came to it, she had no
choice, and it would lead to fewer complications if there were no reports
echoing around the area.

Discretion was an underlined mission parameter. She had to acquire the
target without being conspicuous, without either of them drawing attention
to themselves. Tough gig. Forcibly rip a human being from their everyday life
and demonstrate to them how the world is a far more evil and dangerous place
than they ever feared, but please do it quietly and without anyone noticing.

She wouldn’t be easily separated from the kid; Lex was under no illusions

about that. It would therefore be all about choosing the moment. Unfortu-
nately, she knew the number of moments from which she could choose was
ever diminishing. Patience had to be allied to judgement, but patience against
the clock meant judgement had to be allied to nerve.
Their seats were close to the action, a row of tables back from the toddler
zone. Jane stayed with Thomas for a while to let Michelle rest her feet, then
tempted him over to the table with the promise of some chocolate buttons.
He sat on Jane’s knee and smeared contentedly while she and Michelle had a
coffee. Every so often, they’d make out a familiar voice calling ‘Mummy!’ or
‘Gran!’ amid the dozens of unfamiliar ones calling out the same thing, and
look up to see Rachel wave at them from some vertiginously elevated part of
the climbing structure.

‘It’s as well she does that now and again,’ Michelle remarked, ‘otherwise I’'d
lose track of her completely.’

‘In my experience, she comes back approximately every ten minutes for a
drink of juice. ’'d only worry if she exceeded that.’

‘This place is just mental. Too busy, too many weans. There’s a wee girl in
here with the same dress as Rachel. I waved to her soon as I saw her through

the crowd, a few minutes before you got here. Felt like an eejit.’

‘Glad it wasn’t me that waved, then,’ Jane said. ‘You’d have said I was
having a “senior moment”.’

Tm telling you, you’re the one that must have your wits about you, taking
Rachel to this place so often. I cannae handle it. She goes haring off and
disappears, then my heart’s in my mouth when I do see her, because she’s
hanging off something or diving head first down a slide.’

‘You'd better just accept it, Michelle, because it never ends. One minute
she’s heading up that ladder, the next she’s asking for driving lessons.’

‘Please no motorbikes. Please no motorbikes. If I believed in God, that
would be my prayer every night.’

Just don’t let them hear you saying it. Somehow they always find a way of
doing the opposite of what you want for them.’

‘Well, that depends on whether what you want for them is reasonable or
consistent, doesn’t it?’ Michelle replied, a slight edge coming into her voice.
Jane immediately regretted her last remark. It was the kind of thing you
could comfortably say to any mother on the planet apart from one who also
happened to be your daughter.

Tm not having a go, Michelle. Just saying it'll come to you.’

Tll be ready. Donald and I talk about this all the time. You can have your
hopes, but don’t have expectations. The fun’s not in guiding them, but in what
they do on their own.’

Yl quote you on that a few years hence, Jane kept to herself. ‘Wise words,’
she said instead.

‘And anyway, Mum, I don’t think you can cry foul too loud. I must be
about the only daughter whose mother complained about the fact that she
quit playing in a rock band in order to study hard and get a good degree.’

‘I never complained,’ Jane protested. ‘I was just surprised you didn’t take it
a bit further, see where it led.’

‘Take it further?’ Michelle asked, raising her voice, but laughing with it. She
could have been screaming her lungs out and it would have attracted no more
attention amid the din.

They’d been over this umpteen times, Jane perhaps subconsciously picking
at the scab as she so often found herself bringing it up. Michelle got less
aggressive in response these days, but there was a tone of tired exasperation
to her voice, asking the same question as Jane was right then asking of herself:
why couldn’t she let this go?

‘Mum, it was a student band. We were called The Giorgio Marauders, for
God’s sake. How far did you think we were going to take it?’

As far as a mother’s daft dreams, was the answer; a mother who wanted
her daughter to have the things she never had, whether her daughter wanted

them or not. Sports cars and casinos, or maybe just the path less travelled by.
It wasn’t about the band, it was about the marrying and settling down when
Michelle had other choices that Jane didn’t.

‘ know the band was just a bit of fun, Michelle. I never complained,’ she
reiterated. ‘I was just a little surprised — not disappointed, surprised — your
choices at that age were, I don’t know, so conventional.’

‘The apple doesn’t fall far from the tree, Mum,’ Michelle replied, shaking
her head. Michelle reached, too late, to grab Thomas’s hands before he could
wipe them on Jane’s jacket, leaving her with three chocolatey streaks around
either breast. ‘Sorry. Is it dry-clean only?’ she asked, with a wince.

‘No, no,’ Jane assured, lying. ‘But what do you mean, the apple doesn’t fall
far from the tree?’

Michelle laughed again, and Jane knew she was sugaring a pill.

‘You’re saying youre surprised I’ve been conventional? Well, wherever did
I get it from?’

‘You mean your father,’ Jane stated, relieved to divert but feeling slightly
disloyal.

‘No, I mean you, Mum. You've never exactly been the essence of urban
rebellion, have you? You keep a house so immaculate you could eat your
dinner off the bathroom floor, you drive five miles below the speed limit at
all times and when you're not bailing me out at zero notice, you spend your
spare time doing work for charity. You’re the soul of dutiful and responsible
behaviour. What kind of an example is that to give your children?’

Jane laughed to convey that she was taking it in the lighter spirit Michelle
intended. Inside, part of her wanted to weep.

Tm not that responsible,’ she insisted, a little bashfully.

‘Oh come on, Mum. I don’t think you’ve ever had a parking ticket. How
many times did you give us that speech about how respect for other people
and respect for the law are one and the same thing, and that’s why you’ve
never broken it?’

‘There’s nothing to be ashamed of about—

Tm not ashamed of it, Mum. But I’m not so sure about you. Just because
you stuck by the rules doesn’t necessarily mean you're happy about it.’

Out of the mouths of babes. It was hard to take when your kids thought
they knew you better than you knew yourself; harder still when they were
right. On this form, she should ask Rachel to attempt a Jungian analysis.

‘And what I really don’t get,’ Michelle continued, the pill getting audibly
more bitter, ‘is why you act like I was a mug for settling down when I sup-
posedly had the world at my feet, yet you’re in the huff with Ross because he
dumped his fiancée over that job in France. How does that work? He gets a

hard time for breaking the rules and I get a hard time for sticking by them?
Make up your mind.’

Tm not in the huff with Ross,’ Jane insisted, turning suddenly defensive to
protect a vulnerable spot. ‘More like he’s the one in the huff with me.’

‘What’s the difference? When did you last speak? Ages, I’ll bet. You should
call him.’

‘I do call him. He’s never in. I always get the answering machine.’

‘Do you leave a message? You don’t, do you?’

‘I hate those things.’

‘That’s a no.’

‘I have left messages,’ she said, which was true but only just into the plural,
and the last had been several weeks ago. ‘He never calls me back.’

‘No, and knowing Ross, he’s not going to say he’s sorry, either. But one way
or another, you need to talk, and I mean properly. Not five minutes with Dad
about Celtic and then you asking him how the job’s going.’

Jane winced. More preter-generational wisdom, Michelle describing fairly
accurately most of their telephone exchanges with Ross even before their
falling out.

At that moment, Thomas climbed down from Jane’s lap and began tugging
on his mum’s hand, indicating his desire to return to the toddler zone.

‘Balls, Mummy,’ he said, pretty much echoing Ross’s sentiments the last time
they’d had a discussion of any substance.

‘Duty calls,’ Michelle said, allowing herself to be dragged from the bench.
‘But I’m serious, my last word — you need to talk to him.’

1 will,’ Jane said, unsure whether this was a statement of intent or merely
an optimistic prediction.

She watched Michelle walking away, bent over Thomas, and reached for the
last of her coffee. It was still just about warm enough to drink. She knocked
back a big gulp and looked around the climbing structure for Rachel. So many
little bodies, clambering, sliding, pushing, so many tunnels and barriers. She
remembered bringing a camera here once, and trying for a frustratingly long
time to get a picture of Rachel in action. She ended up with a few blurry
shots of her bolting away from the end of a chute, and several of completely
different children. Eventually Jane spotted her. She was up on the highest tier,
her back visible through a grid of safety webbing, waiting — but not queuing —
for her chance to slide down the big yellow tube that curved its way gently
to ground level. Jane knew she’d wait there for ages, if necessary, not quite
confident enough to take her shot while there were bigger kids around, nor
understanding that the more polite of them were deferring right of way.

Jane took a last mouthful of now barely drinkable coffee, and was about to
look up at the structure again when her attention was distracted by a sudden

outbreak of howling, a little voice frenziedly shrieking ‘Mummy! Mummy!
Mummy!’ This was hardly unusual, and Jane was two generations adept at
channelling it out, but it was accompanied by a flurry of movement at the
corner of her eye, which involuntarily drew her gaze.

It was the little girl Michelle had mentioned, wearing the same dress as
Rachel, having a force-nine tantrum as she was carried towards the exit by
the stressed man with the foreign accent. He was holding her across him, her
face into his chest as she beat her arms and kicked and yelled. The man wore
a weary and stoical smile to mask a familiar embarrassment most bystanders
knew it was politest to look away from and ignore. Jane dutifully observed
the etiquette herself, returning her attention to the structure.

It took a moment to find Rachel again, and when she did Jane saw only
a brief flash of her back before she disappeared down the tube. Jane looked
down to where the slide exited on to a bank of soft mats. A couple of seconds
later the child emerged, sliding out on to her tummy. She sat up and waved
to someone nearby, finally facing Jane’s direction.

She felt the world freeze for just a moment.

It wasn’t Rachel.

Jane turned around and looked at the man carrying the struggling girl to-
wards the gate, now approaching the woman working the counter. She still
couldn’t see the girl’s face. Her mind raced, balancing rationale against fear,
logic against instinct. The dress came from Next; it was hardly unique. She
could stand up and scream for him to be stopped, but it really would be a
‘senior moment’ if Rachel appeared looking for juice just as she made her
hysterical accusation of abduction.

The woman buzzed him through. Jane still couldn’t see Rachel anywhere,
still couldn’t see the tantrumming girl’s face. She remembered him standing
at the counter, pointing to his name on the list. Pointing to a name on the list.
Mackie, he’d said, in that French-sounding accent.

Mackie. How French was that?

Jane got to her feet and began running for the exit.

‘Stop him,’ she shouted. ‘Stop him right now.’

The woman on the counter looked bemusedly at Jane as she approached.
The man was through the first set of double doors and into the foyer, where
he looked back, caught sight of Jane and began to run. He turned around to
back his way through the outside doors, changing his grip on the girl as he
did so. Her head came up as she continued to squirm and flail. Jane saw her
face: flushed, tear-soaked, howling, hysterical. Rachel.

She hurdled the gate, putting one hand on the counter to give her more
lift, then barrelled through the double doors and into the glass foyer. She
could see him running diagonally across the cul-de-sac, heading towards the

dead end where the only exit was the path leading to the supermarket car
park. Ahead of him the lights flashed on a black Vectra, signalling its being
remotely unlocked.

Jane got to the front doors a crucial moment after a chubby couple in match-
ing Celtic tracksuits began negotiating their way through them with a double-
wide buggy and two sleeping kids. It must only have taken a few seconds,
but their awkward and lumbering movements were excruciating enough for
Jane to consider throwing herself through one of the plate-glass windows for
a quicker exit. Jane squeezed around them as soon as there was a gap, barely
registering the indignant tut this drew, and charged out on to the pavement,
almost flattening one of the next-door hairdressers who was outside having a
cigarette, scissors and comb tucked into his breast pocket.

She looked to the black Vectra and felt her heart jump as she failed to see
the man or Rachel. Then the top of his head became visible above the Audi
next to him. He was leaning over an open rear door. The bastard had a child-
seat or some other restraint, and was strapping Rachel into it. She heard the
rear door slam and saw him pull open the driver’s one in front. Jane thrust her
hand into her jacket pocket and gave thanks that she hadn’t taken it off when
she let Thomas sit on her lap with his packet of melting chocolate buttons.

She ran for the Civic, had the doors unlocked by the time she got there and
turned the key in the ignition even as she climbed into the driver’s seat. She
could see the Vectra moving as she put her car in gear and released the hand-
brake. It was gathering speed, but it wouldn’t be fast enough. She released
the clutch and rolled the car forward across the single lane of tarmac, then
ratcheted the handbrake and dived across the gearstick to the passenger side
as the Vectra impacted.

She fell into the passenger seat and cracked an elbow against the door as
the driver-side airbag inflated, billowing out from the steering wheel into un-
occupied space. The optional five hundred quid for the passenger-side airbag
proved money well saved, as Jane was able to exit the car unencumbered. On
the far side of the Civic she could see that two airbags had detonated inside
the Vectra, temporarily pinning the driver to his seat.

Are you all right?’ the hairdresser asked, stepping towards her.

‘He’s got my granddaughter, she screamed, barging past him to get to the
Vectra. ‘He’s got Rachel.’

The Vectra’s bonnet had crumpled, its nose partially embedded in the
Civic’s SIPS-galvanised driver-side door. Through the windscreen Jane could
see hands grapple with the deflating airbag, and could hear Rachel’s muted
screams from inside. She ran around the back of the Vectra to the rear
passenger-side door and tugged at the handle. It was locked. She balled
her fingers into a fist and drew back her arm. Caution should have told her

that she would shred and mangle her hand, but something deeper was over-
riding all personal concerns. It was, however, the same instinct that stilled
her fist, as she envisaged the spray of glass that would cover Rachel. In that
moment, the Vectra began to reverse at speed. The man remained obstructed
by the airbag, but his feet still had control of the pedals. Jane stepped clear
just in time before a wing mirror could clip her middle. The hairdresser began
to give chase, and she was about to follow until she realised what the driver
intended to do.

She ran across the tarmac and pushed the hairdresser between two parked
cars as the Vectra leaped forward again with a squeal of hot rubber. It shot
past, blind, clipping the fronts of several stationary vehicles before slamming
once more into the Civic, which was spun ten or fifteen degrees, but still
presented a sufficient barrier to prevent the Vectra from getting past. Standing
between the parked cars, Jane was only feet away from Rachel, who was
thrashing hysterically in the child-seat. In front, she could see the driver’s
arms flailing and tugging, and the grey glint of a blade. He was ripping the
airbag with a knife, and once free of it would be better able to guide the Vectra
for another ramming charge.

Jane turned to the hairdresser.

‘Gimme the scissors,’ she demanded.

‘What?’ he asked blankly, clearly too dazed to respond. She reached to his
chest and grabbed them from the pocket, then scrambled to the side of the
Vectra and plunged them into the rear tyre. At first the blades just bounced
off the tread. Then she remembered that the side wall was less protected. She
dug the scissors in with both hands, her fingers white and her arms taut as she
applied all the pressure she could summon. Suddenly the tips burst through
and air came rushing from the gash. She pulled the scissors out and was
about to make for the front tyre, but by this point the driver had completely
extricated himself from his airbag and began to reverse once more. The car
was already listing as it drew back, but it would still be able to jolt the Civic
again, maybe this time enough to open a gap wide enough to escape through.

Jane ran back to her own car, threw open the door and plunged the scis-
sors into the airbag, following his lead. It worked considerably faster than the
automatic deflation process, but the Vectra had already ceased reversing and
there was no way she’d be able to get behind the controls in time. Instead she
reached across the seat, under the folds of the bag, and released the hand-
brake, then gave the steering wheel a sharp turn. The camber of the road
sloped gently towards the building, causing the car to roll forwards and thus
reclose the gap.

Jane turned to see the Vectra roar towards her. She saw his face, deter-
mination in his eyes, blood streaming from his nose from the impact of the

airbag. He was focused not on the Civic, but on her. Whichever way she ran,
that’s where he was going to steer, and there wasn’t time for her to get back
between the parked cars.

She turned, placing both hands on top of the Honda, and vaulted on to its
roof a fraction of a second before the Vectra smashed into the side for a third
time. Jane felt the impact with a shudder that came from inside as much as
the jolt from without. She was bounced off the roof on the passenger side, but
was able to correct her fall so that her feet hit the ground before she tumbled
to all fours. The palms of her hands were skinned pretty raw but, crucially,
there were no impact injuries to her wrists.

She got to her feet and looked to the cars. In trying to kill her, he’d ended
up hitting the Civic straight on, which had maximised the damage to his own
vehicle and failed to spin the Honda any further out of the way.

People had begun to emerge from the building to investigate what all the
noise was about: the woman from the counter, the male half of the podgy
tracksuit-Tims, clients and staff from the salon. They stood in a line as though
there was a glass pane separating the spectators from the combatants, their
faces a mixture of curiosity and confusion. They didn’t yet know enough to
evince due shock or concern, but mere caution prevented them rushing into
involvement before they had a handle on what was going on.

Jane heard a whine from the Vectra, which let her know the last crash had
stalled it and that the driver was struggling to get it going again. She could
also hear Rachel’s glass-muted screams, which served to clear her mind of all
shock, all pain and all distraction. She knew only one thing: she had to get
Rachel out of the car, and she couldn’t do this while that man was inside it;
not while the bastard was conscious, anyway.

Jane stepped to the rear of the Civic and popped open the boot, from which
she removed Rachel’s buggy, neatly folded for transport, then ran around the
back of the Vauxhall. The driver was hunched over the steering wheel, turn-
ing the ignition key and frantically pumping the accelerator. He looked up
and to the side as Jane launched the buggy through his window, two wheels
shattering the glass and continuing into his face, with all the strength and fury
she could bring to bear. She pulled the buggy back and sent it in again, but
this time he deflected it and pulled it right inside, Jane letting go before she
could be dragged against the door towards that knife.

‘Here, that’s enough, calm it doon,’ said a male voice, and Jane felt hands
gripping her shoulders tightly from behind to restrain her. Just calm it doon,
missus,’ he reiterated forcefully. The grip tightened as she struggled. She
couldn’t see him, but he was pulling her against his ample body to hold her
in place, while in front of her the driver resumed his attempts to restart his
engine. It burst into life with an unhealthy sounding snarl, repeated twice as

he gunned the revs to make sure it stayed alive. Jane could see his shoulder
shift as he put it into reverse, this vigilante halfwit’s arms now around her
chest. She sent her head back with a full-blooded jerk and felt the crunch at
the back of her head as she broke his nose. She then sent a foot stamping
hard into his instep and broke free of his embrace.

The Vectra reversed laboriously along the cul-de-sac, its engine whining
and its rear driver-side tyre grinding metal on concrete, accompanied by a
flapping wup-wup-wup noise. She went after it, not running, but striding
along the centre of the lane, keeping her options open. She looked him in the
eye through the windscreen. He looked at her, then at the Civic, then at the
gathering crowd.

The car stopped, but this time it didn’t come forward again. He opened
the door and stepped out, brandishing the knife: no Saturday-night chib from
mammy’s kitchen drawer, but a long, thick, serrated weapon that looked like
it was specifically designed and intended for killing people. Jane reached into
a pocket in her jacket and pulled out the hairdresser’s scissors. They stood
fifteen, maybe twenty feet apart, close enough to see into each other’s eyes.
He continued to scan his surroundings, but never lifted his gaze from her for
long. She saw desperation but not fear, anger but not rage, and his expression
was coldly dispassionate.

Jane gripped the scissors, curling two fingers and a thumb around the steel
loops. She heard a voice bellowing with fury, with fire, with certainty, its
words echoing off the walls.

‘TLL KILL YOU. I SWEAR I’LL KILL YOU’’

It took a moment to realise it was coming from her own mouth.

The man looked at her for one more cold second, then looked away. He
opened the rear passenger-side door and pulled a briefcase from within, then
turned and began to run. He held the case in his left hand, the knife and
a mobile phone to his ear with his right as he headed for the path to the
supermarket, before disappearing out of sight behind the fence.

His retreat had barely begun before Jane was sprinting towards the car. She
dived in through the still-open rear door and clambered across the upholstery
to where Rachel was strapped into the child-seat.

‘Gra-an, Gra-aaan,’ she was howling, tear-streaked and terrified.

Jane unclasped the buckle, yanked the straps free and hauled her into her
arms. She let herself collapse against the leather of the back seat, held her
granddaughter tightly to her chest, breathed in the smell of her hair, then
cried and cried and cried.

Abduction: how to do it properly
Lex had sat up that bit straighter and felt herself tense as she saw the man
emerge carrying the little girl. At that point and from that distance, she
couldn’t identify the child (and an adult hurriedly toting a raging kid through
a car park was not in itself a remarkable or alarming sight), but the very pos-
sibility that it was Ross Fleming’s niece presented every last ramification she
had feared about this job. The emergence of her target a few seconds later
told her she didn’t have to worry about what might happen any more: her
worst-case scenario was now thoroughly in progress.

Bett’s instructions, often infuriatingly elliptical, had been extremely clear
on one thing: she was not to intervene in any situation involving the tar-
get unless, as a last resort, it was the only way of preserving the mission.
Nonetheless, her first reaction upon seeing this situation unfold was to grab
her mobile. There was a two-button speed-dial combination that would get
her Bett immediately on a dedicated line that he kept clear for when any
of them absolutely needed to speak to him. She now had confirmation that
another party most definitely was involved, and they were in the process of
abducting a three-year-old, either as bait or leverage, proving them to be as
direct and ruthless as Willis had implied.

Her finger hovered over the keypad as she watched Fleming’s mother dash
across the cul-de-sac, the kidnapper pulling out of a parking space further
along the lane. She remembered Bett’s typically stern advice regarding the
speed-dial ‘White Line’, as he called it.

‘As a rule, in any given situation, the first three times you want to use it,
you'll already know the answer. Don’t waste my time.’

Lex watched Jane Fleming’s car drive across the kidnapper’s path and stop
dead, then moments later the black Vectra buried its nose in the Honda’s
flank. She put the phone down. She did already know the answer. Things
were nowhere near last-resort stage, particularly if Bett was right about this
‘specialist’; and as she knew only too well, Bett was always right.

His description echoed around her as she remained in the hire car and wit-
nessed the duel unfold. A man began trotting after the Vectra as it reversed.
Fleming ran across the tarmac to push him clear as the car shot forward again.

95

Someone fearless ...

The woman grabbed something silver from the bystander — looked like scis-
sors — and began digging it into one of the car’s tyres. Moments later she
would be using a child’s pushchair to smash the window and bludgeon the
kidnapper.

Someone who can adapt and improvise ...

With the Vectra revving up for another attempt to barge past the Honda,
she managed to roll it back across the path, despite the encumbrance of an
airbag.

Someone resourceful and cunning ...

Then she dived clear just in time, bouncing off of the Civic’s roof and down
on to the tarmac, where she didn’t even dust herself down before charging
back on to the offensive.

Stoical in the face of pain and danger...

With the Vectra limping backwards like a wounded beast, the kidnapper
climbed out, holding a hunting knife. Fleming faced him down, brandishing
a pair of barber’s scissors.

Ruthlessly uncompromising in pursuit of the objective ...

Tl kill you,’ Lex heard, the words reverberating around the entire area with
a mortal conviction. ‘I swear I’ll kill you.’

... and utterly merciless in eliminating anyone who stands in the way.

Chalk another one up to that son-of-a-bitch: it looked a hell of a good
basket.

Lex watched the kidnapper emerge from the path and into the supermarket
car park. He had a briefcase in one hand — couldn't leave evidence of his true
purpose when he bailed — and was already on his phone, calling in the bad
news. She could see him scanning the cars as he jogged. He needed an out
fast and jacking a passing driver was his best shot in the short-term.

Lex realised that a valuable opportunity was presenting itself, but it was
way, way outside of mission parameters. It was a chance to get a handle on
who they were up against, but would only come at the expense of dropping
the target. This window would not be open for long, she knew. The question
of deviating from the mission was ordinarily a no-brainer, but nobody, not
even Bett, could have anticipated a potential break like this. She reached
again for the phone. Again, her finger stalled above the keypad. Again, she
already knew the answer. The target wasn’t going anywhere, and anyway,
Lex had already made the principal drop back at that other supermarket. She
slipped the nine-millimetre into a pocket on the inside of the door, put the car
into gear and pulled away.

In a few seconds she was parallel to him, one row distant, as he jogged
between the lines of parked cars. She descended the passenger-side window

with a touch of a button.

‘Get in, now,’ she called out.

He looked around to see where the voice had come from.

‘Allez, allez,’ she insisted impatiently.

At that, he bolted for the Renault and pulled at the front door, which he
found to be locked.

‘In the back, you fucking idiot, and keep down.’

He clambered hurriedly across the rear seats and pulled the door closed as
Lex accelerated towards the exit.

‘Et qui étes-vous?? he asked, nestling uncomfortably across the rear
footwells.

‘In English, dipshit,’ she answered, figuring they wouldn’t send someone
who couldn’t speak it. She knew also that it was harder to lie in another
language; or harder to hide it, at least.

‘I said who are you?” he revised.

Tm back-up. I’m the Seventh goddamn Cavalry. Certain parties weren’t so
confident you could pull this off without a hitch.’

‘What parties?’

‘Informed parties, it looks like.’

‘What’s your name?’

‘That’s on a need-to-know basis, dude, and, right now, you don’t need to
know. In fact it’s best if you don’t.’

Lex negotiated the car park’s one-way system quickly but without any con-
spicuous haste. She kept her eyes on the road, but did grab the occasional
glance at her passenger, who remained curled across the cramped channel.
She wheeled around the roundabout, then accelerated as she finally hit open
road.

A glance down behind her revealed that he was no longer on the floor. She
suddenly felt cold steel held across her neck.

‘Now, how about you tell me who the hell you are, yes?’ he demanded.

‘Look, I gotta warn you, driving isn’t my specialty, so I’d appreciate it if you
didn’t put me off, okay? Less of the fucking theatricals, jeez.’

Still he kept the knife in place, pushing it a little harder against her skin.

‘Answer me,’ he growled, a throaty hiss.

‘I told you. I’m back-up, and my name is strictly need-to-goddamn-know.
You want credentials? Look in the briefcase on the front seat. The folder,’ she
directed.

He tried grasping for it with the knife still in place, but didn’t have the
reach. Lex tutted, like this was all a real drag to her. She reached a hand
across and opened the dossier, revealing photographs of Fleming, his parents,
his sister and her husband and kids.

‘Okay,’ she said, ‘so I’m working the Fleming job, you’re working the Fleming
job. Or rather youre fucking up the Fleming job.’

He withdrew the knife as he leaned over to try and pick up the folder, but
she slammed shut the briefcase.

‘Hands off, ami. You don’t have that kind of clearance, believe me, and I
ain’t telling you any shit that I’m not certain you’re authorised to hear. So how
about we establish your credentials, find out what you do know and then I’ll
decide whether it’s worth us trying to help you redeem this situation. We'll
start with where you're headed.’

‘This way is good,’ he said, settling back into the seat. He looked slightly
relieved, slightly pissed off, which was what she wanted. He was grateful that
someone had saved his ass from the authorities, but was beginning to contem-
plate that no one could save it from his bosses. ‘I have someone waiting. We
were supposed to change cars. It’s secluded. Woodland. About three miles.’

‘Then you'll meet as planned and we'll work out the next move from there.
The important thing right now is to get clear of this mess.’

‘Oui, he grumbled.

‘So what’s with the big blade? Don’t they trust you guys with guns?’

‘We had to move at short notice. Can’t take guns on a flight and the alter-
native was to drive. Takes too long.’

Plus you figured you wouldn’t need ’em, huh?’ she chided. ‘So when did
they scramble you? Yesterday? Or have you been on this from the start? Was
it you guys went for Fleming at his apartment? Made quite a mess.’

Lex checked the rear-view to see his expression. It was irritated.

‘Someone else handled that. Our job was just the child, after they didn’t
deliver.’

‘So who’s supposed to bring Fleming in once you’ve got the kid?’

‘I don’t know. Lucien, I guess. It was he who went to Chassignan.’

‘Lucien?’ she bluffed, turning around and taking her eyes off the road for
dramatic effect. ‘God help us,’ she continued, braking as she approached
another roundabout. She was actually finding it easier to handle driving on
the left during this discussion because it kept her from thinking too much
about what she was doing. ‘Please don’t tell me Lucien’s supposed to bring in
the other stuff too.’

‘What other stuff?”

‘What this whole thing is about. The goods, man.’

‘As far as I know, Fleming is what this whole thing is about.’

‘Hmmm. Well, yes and no.’

‘You know different?’ he asked, sitting up.

‘Keep your head down, man. I can’t discuss it, but it’s to do with the
Marledoq materials, and I don’t know how much you’re authorised to hear.

I mean, have you seen the video files, for instance?’

Jesus, yes. Of course. Everybody’s seen the video files.’

‘Well, exactly. I can only talk about what everybody already knows, so
what’s the point, right? Unless ... hey, what name do you call your boss, the
main man?’

‘You don’t know who my boss is? I thought you said...’

I know who your fucking boss is, I asked what name you call him. He
has more than one. What you call him denotes your level of clearance; it’s
shorthand code.’

‘T call him Parrier. And I’ve never heard of this different name shit.’

‘Which, unfortunately, tells me exactly what level you’re cleared to. Sorry.’

‘Hey, who the hell are you anyway?’ he snarled, sitting up again. ‘You look
like you're just out of fucking high school and you're talking to me like—

‘Yeah, yeah. Just remember who came to whose rescue back there if you
need a sense of perspective. If you had done your job properly, you wouldn’t
have even needed to find out I existed. But we’re both here now, so let’s just
deal. Hey, we’re coming up on another roundabout. Straight on?’

‘No, right,’ he told her, looking up again.

She turned and accelerated on to a dual carriageway.

‘Where the hell’s secluded around here?’ she asked.

‘Woods. You'll see. Left at the next roundabout, and then another mile. One
minute it’s town, the next it’s countryside.’

Lex drove on, holding in the left-hand lane despite being stuck behind a
slow-moving dump truck. A silence began to grow between them, which she
knew would make her uneasy. So far she’d succeeded in practising what Bett
had taught her about situations like this, the first trick being to get the other
party to justify himself to you and establish his credentials, rather than the
other way around.

The second trick was to keep him talking, preferably answering questions,
so that he couldn’t dwell too much on who you were and how little you were
giving back.

‘Shit, what a mess,’ she said, shaking her head. ’I don’t think there’s been a
video clip that’s caused such a stir since Pammy and Tommy, huh?’

‘No kidding,’ he agreed grumpily. ‘And you’re asking why I’m carrying a
knife?’ he added archly.

Point taken,’ Lex said, bluffing that she had any idea what his point could
possibly be.

As he had indicated, the buildings and houses along the carriageway soon
petered out into countryside. A left turn took them up a potholed side road
towards woodland, then a further turn between two no entry signs brought
them on to a rutted single track winding uphill and deeper into the trees. It

was secluded, all right. Dim, claustrophobic, secret. A place for shameful
deeds. Lex started to feel sick. She thought of that little girl who should have
been in the back seat of the guy’s car at this point, but that wasn’t what was
doing it.

They came to a clearing, barely more than a passing place, really, but wide
enough to accommodate two cars and the pile of stripped, narrow pine trunks
that lay to the right of the track. There was a dark blue Ford sitting motionless
ahead, dull and treacherously anonymous. The figure behind the wheel got
out as the Renault approached.

Lex stopped the car ten yards short. This was where it got tricky. Stringing
two guys along with a charade like this was a lot more than just twice as
difficult. Besides, the disadvantage of a bluff based on superiority of rank was
that she had to give the impression she already knew all of the information
she was able to elicit, making it all the harder to pry without raising suspicion.
Information, Bett had frequently impressed upon all of them, was instantly
devalued the moment the enemy knew you had it.

‘Okay, here’s what’s gonna happen,’ she told her passenger as she killed the
engine. ‘I gotta make a quick call. While I’m doing that, you go fill your buddy
in on who I am so we don’t have to go through all the same shit again.’

‘Sure,’ he grunted, climbing out of the back seat.

Lex reached for her mobile for the third time. Yet again, she already knew
the answer; she’d known the answer the second she rolled the window down
and told this asshole to get in her car, but she dialled the number anyway.

She was prepared to do a lot of things for Bett, but one of them wasn’t
sparing him the burden of complicity in this. She wanted to hear him say it,
wanted him to explicitly speak the words. Five hundred miles away from this
shit, it was the least the fucker could do.

He answered in less than five seconds. She explained the situation in less
than ten.

‘Execute them,’ he said. ‘Put the bodies in the car. Burn it.’

The line went dead.

Monster.

Fucking monster. That was what he was, and what he made you.

Lex looked ahead through the windscreen. Her passenger was standing
next to his partner, an older man with close-cropped grey hair, also in an
inconspicuous business suit. The younger was gesticulating, miming what
had befallen him at the play-house place. The older man cast a couple of
glances Lex’s way, but she’d made sure not to catch his eye. Casualness was
her disguise and her shield. She retrieved the nine-millimetre from the pocket
in the door and tucked it into the rear waistband of her trousers, the silencer
attachment nosing between the tops of her buttocks. She flapped at her jacket

to ensure it covered the handgrip, then got out of the car and walked towards
them. The older man turned first, inviting her into an ongoing discussion
about how they planned to proceed. He seemed intent to impress upon her
both his seniority in the pairing and his initiative in taking matters forward.
Either way, he was taking her at face value because he assumed anything else
would waste time and lose him points with people further up the chain.

‘Doing it in a public place was always risky,’ he said, heavily accented. Ger-
man, maybe Dutch. ‘Too many variables. We should reacquire the child at the
house, after dark, where we can control the environment.’

‘I don’t know,’ the younger man argued. ‘Theyre going to be extremely
vigilant now. What about the cops?’

‘The parents will be shaken up,’ grey-hair agreed, ‘but they won’t think the
girl was specifically targeted. The police will assume it was a random attempt,
and that’s what they'll tell the family to put their minds at ease. The cops won’t
be watching the house, and the parents won’t think that lightning is about to
strike twice.’

‘They won’t be letting the kids out of their sight, though.’

‘That’s not going to matter. We’re not talking about a snatch job any more.
We'll do it like we should have in the first place: hit the house at night, take
what we need and silence what we don’t. Kill everyone but the older kid.
She'll be worth more to Fleming that way — she’ll be all he has left.’

Lex listened to this matter-of-fact discussion and remembered that there
were degrees of monstrosity.

‘It’s a bit of a leap from child abduction to what you're talking about,’ she
observed, with a fragile facade of calm.

‘So, do you have a problem with that?’ the younger man asked, still
wrestling with those hierarchy issues. Are you going to tell us it’s not “au-
thorised”?’ he added nippily.

‘Oh, I'd authorise it in a New York minute. I just wanted to check you guys
aren’t squeamish about this kind of thing. But you’re okay with the idea of
killing people, just like that, if it cuts down on risks?’

‘Anything that makes it easier to get the job done,’ grey-hair told her.

‘Cool,’ Lex said, reaching behind her back.


Unsafe building

The sting of antiseptic on Jane’s palms was the first sensation her nerves had
managed to get through to her brain since the moment she realised it wasn’t
Rachel coming out of that yellow chute. She was beginning to notice a duller,
deeper ache around the right side of her pelvis, the site denoted by a thread-
dangling rip across the material of her trousers. She couldn’t quite remember
where or when it had happened — whether it had been as she bounced on the
roof, or perhaps when she hit the ground just after.

She was sitting upstairs in the Kaos Kottage’s private party room, where
groups of kids were taken to get filled up with Coke, chips and E numbers
(just in case they weren’t high enough) in a brief respite from their physical
activities. Jane had to make do with a cup of tea, but she imagined, even
without a slice of birthday cake, that her experience must be much the same
as the weans’: a moment to sit down and refuel, her legs starting to tingle
in testimony to their efforts, her mind trying to replay and digest what had
passed in a blur of excitement. One of the staff was in attendance with a
first-aid kit, and was dabbing at her grazes with cotton wool and Dettol. A
policewoman was downstairs waiting to talk to her, but was busying herself
with other witness statements in the meantime.

Michelle had already gone, taking both the kids home on Jane’s insistence.
She’d offered to hang around, but Jane knew it was just a gesture of gratitude.
They all needed to be back where they felt secure, and as soon as possible.
Michelle’s husband Donald had been called and was on his way back early
from the hospital. Jane, for her part, needed to know they were home and safe
more than she needed any solidarity. She felt strangely apart from everybody
in the aftermath anyway; everybody except Rachel.

Mercifully, Michelle had missed all the fun. With the place being so mobbed,
the noise inside had meant the crashes were only audible nearest the entrance,
which was why merely a trickle of observers had come to investigate, many
of them from the salon. With her attention taken by minding Thomas as
he clambered clumsily around the toddler area, Michelle hadn’t noticed Jane
make her hurried exit, nor even heard her calls above the din of excited young
voices. She was understandably shaken up when she learned exactly what she

103

had missed, but Jane was greatly relieved her daughter had been spared the
most of it, and by far the worst of it.

There was a sensation that seized you suddenly like a cold steel fist in the
pit of your stomach when you realised you didn’t know where your child
was. It happened all the time — wandering mere feet away out of sight in
a shopping centre; slipping unnoticed to the toilet, leaving you staring in
horror at an empty back garden — and usually resolved itself in moments, but
frequency never diminished the impact. The worst of it, the thing Michelle
had been spared, was what followed when the next few moments didn’t bring
resolution. The worst of it was the helplessness. The worst of it was the
paralysing realisation that your child’s welfare was out of your hands — the
hands your child looked to for all ministrations, the hands that would in that
moment give anything to touch your child’s living flesh again.

Michelle had been spared, and, in this case, Jane had been spared too.

There had been no helplessness, no paralysis, and matters had been in her
hands like they’d never been before. Nothing had ever felt so compellingly
instinctive. There had been no fear, not for herself. There had been no choices,
no decisions: only actions, only necessary deeds. It had seemed as though she
was a passenger inside her own body, and someone else, someone tens of
thousands of years more experienced, was doing the driving.

She sipped her tea and obliged her first-aider with the politest minimum of
conversational responses necessary to convey that she didn’t much feel like
talking. The police might get more, but they'd need to wait; she wasn’t ready,
and nor did she feel like she would be for a while yet. At this stage she was
still struggling to assemble her memories coherently. They were like jumbled
snippets of film and audio footage that still had to be correctly juxtaposed
in order to create a linear narrative. Some of them told of events, some of
them only of thoughts and feelings, and while she could dwell on them indi-
vidually, she couldn’t yet work out how they all fitted together. One element
in particular jarred discordantly with the rest; or perhaps it was fairer to say
that the rest was consistently discordant and thus rendered this one, oddly
harmonious element out of place.

Moments played in loop-back, over and over, out of sequence. Sounds
echoed, words repeated. She knew the story and knew that it had worked
out in the end, but knew also that it was not a happy tale. Rachel’s terri-
fied screams cut shrilly through her and would do so forever in her memory
(though Rachel herself would be over it by bedtime thanks to that kiddy re-
silience that helped ensure the very survival of the species). Jane had felt
a horror, a wrenching fear of loss like nothing she’d experienced in her life,
and in each of those looping moments there was danger, violence, destruction
and pain. All of which, she could, given time and enough tea, just about fit

together.

The jarring element was the hardest to isolate, the most difficult to expose
and consider, never mind find a place for, because it wasn’t supposed to be
there. It had taken her a reluctant while to acknowledge its presence, but
there it undeniably was, hidden deep and secret as any other uncomfortable
truth about herself. It didn’t fit, it didn’t belong, and people would say it
wasn’t right, but she couldn’t pretend it didn’t exist either.

She looked at her hands, the grazes minimal now that the blood and dirt
had been washed away. The backs of her fingers stroked the rip in her
trousers, felt the tender skin and pulsing ache below. Her heart still thumped
like after her first ever workout, and her limbs sang in the afterglow of their
exertion.

‘You poor thing,’ the first-aider said yet again, repeating the sentiment she’d
heard from just about everyone except Michelle, who’d stuck to thank-yous.
‘How awful for you.’

But she didn’t feel like a poor thing.

Jane took a mouthful of tea and nodded, but her wordless assent was to
herself, not the woman with the cotton wool.

It hadn’t been awful for her.

She’d enjoyed it.

That didn’t alter the many, many ways in which it had been one of the most
horrible experiences of her life, and her fear for Rachel was something she
never wanted to feel the like of again. There was anger, also hatred, still
simmering from the act itself, and a fierce burning outrage that he had got
away, which she knew she would draw upon when it came time to talk to the
police. But despite it all, there was a part of her that had never been so alive
as in those blurred, extreme, insane moments: so in control, so defined, so
consumed, so full of purpose, so unstoppable, so bloody, utterly magnificent.
And that part of herself wanted to feel that way again.

Instead, she was facing a slow come-down towards mundane reality: this
cup of tea, questions from the polis, then home for a change of these torn
trousers, and time to make the dinner. What night was it? Tuesday. Mince
and taffies followed by live Champions League football. Haud me back.

It struck her that this was the first she’d even thought of Tom since the
incident, and now that she had, it depressed her. Unlike Michelle, it hadn’t
even occurred to her to call her husband. She didn’t want his comfort, nor
did she even much want to tell him about it. He would only patronise her
and belittle what she’d been through. He’d inevitably make her feel like a
victim, almost wilfully misinterpreting what she told him in order to edit out
the parts that didn’t fit in with his image and expectations of her. But perhaps
more icily than that, she didn’t want to tell him because she felt that this was

hers and she didn’t want to share it. Not with him. Not with anyone yet, but
definitely not with him. This was hers and he would only ruin it.

Tve a needle and thread downstairs if you want me to fix that tear,” the
first-aid woman offered.

Jane looked again at her trousers, pulled automatically from the wardrobe
that morning because she knew no single pair in there had any more style
than the rest. She was a whole mountainside beneath the height of fashion,
but even she drew the line at breeks with a stitched-up rip down the side.

‘It’s all right,’ she said. ‘Tll just change when I get home.’

‘Can I get you another cuppa or anything?’

Jane was about to answer in the negative, when the woman’s mobile began
ringing. Or rather, Jane assumed it was the firstaider’s until the woman said:
Tll let you get your phone.’

‘I don’t have a phone,’ Jane replied.

‘Well, it’s not mine. Mine’s downstairs in my jacket.’

The ringing continued: a standard, electronic double chime as opposed to
a melody, accompanied by a faint pulsing buzz. Jane looked down next to the
table and realised that the sound was coming from her bag. She bent over and
reached into it, feeling vibrations against the leather as she moved aside her
purse, a short umbrella, a packet of baby wipes and a copy of the Big Issue. Her
fingers found it before she saw it, feeling it pulse through a towelling bib right
at the bottom of the bag. She lifted it out. It was silver, sleek and compact.
Jane held it in her palm as it continued to chime, regarding it with the same
puzzlement as though it was an alien artefact dropped from the skies.

Then she remembered: at the supermarket, the girl with the American ac-
cent, Rachel pointing to her bag where it lay in the trolley seat.

Lady dropped her phone. It’s in your bag, Gran.

But the American girl had denied it and held up her phone to demonstrate.
Held up a phone to demonstrate. What the hell?

She dropped her phone. Ring, ring. Ring, ring.

Ring, ring, it chimed on.

‘Are you going to answer it?’

Tm not sure how.’

Tll show you.’

The first-aider took it between her forefinger and thumb and unfolded the
device with a snap. She held it out to Jane, saying: ‘Press the green button to
answer.’

Jane took it from her tentatively, pushed the button and held the phone
reluctantly to her ear.

‘Hello?’ she ventured delicately.

‘Good afternoon,’ said a male voice, relaxed and confident.

‘Ehm, before you say anything, I have to let you know, this...’

‘Isn’t your phone, I know. It’s mine.’

‘Oh, right. I see. It’s not stolen, just so you know. Well, maybe it was, but
not by me.’

‘I know that too, Mrs Fleming.’

‘If you’re wanting to come and get it, I’ll tell you where I am, but it’s not
exactly the best time. Mind you, there’s police here. I could give it to them
and...’

Jane stopped talking. Her cognitive abilities were understandably a little
out of synch, given everything they’d been processing over the past hour or
so, so it took an extra couple of seconds for her to deduce what was wrong
with his last remark. By that point, however, he had trumped it.

‘Not the best time, I appreciate that. And quite an understatement given
that you’re talking about the attempted abduction of your granddaughter. Are
you alone, Mrs Fleming?’

Jane now had the phone clamped to her ear, staring blankly at the open
door to the stairs. She blinked and glanced at the first-aider, who was looking
expectantly towards her for news.

‘No,’ she stated.

‘Then please ensure that you are before we continue this conversation.’

Jane instinctively placed a hand over the mouthpiece, though it wasn’t the
man at the other end she wished to prevent from eavesdropping.

Tm sorry, would you mind leaving me a minute, please?’ she said.

The woman gave her a look of puzzlement which Jane met with a stern
nod. The first-aider then withdrew with a shrug and closed the door.

‘Who are you?’ Jane asked immediately. ‘And how do you know about—

‘About Rachel? Believe me, this is not about Rachel.’

Jane felt a surge of anger.

‘Was it you?’ she demanded, though the very idea posed a cascade of ques-
tions, none of which she could concentrate to focus on.

‘No. I have no interest in your granddaughter. But neither did the man who
tried to take her.’

‘So what is this about?’

‘Have a look at the screen.”

‘What screen?’ she asked, looking around the room, her paranoria reason-
ably extending to assume he could somehow see where she was sitting. He
seemed to know everything else.

‘On the phone,’ he clarified.

Jane took the phone from her ear and felt that cold steel fist for the second
time. The little LCD window showed a photograph of Ross. Jane tried to
speak but found her throat blocked.

‘Now press the right arrow key on the keypad.’

She complied, accidentally doing it twice. She saw a photograph flash past,
replaced immediately by another. It showed a room in disarray, utterly ran-
sacked.

‘These were taken yesterday morning at your son’s apartment in Chassig-
nan.’

She pressed the left arrow key. The previous image was restored: a kitchen
in a similar state of chaos. She’d never seen Ross’s place, never visited him in
France. There seemed no reason for the man to be lying but no reason why
she should believe him either. She pressed forward again. A third picture of
the trashed apartment appeared. On one wall, tiny though the image was, she
recognised a Celtic poster.

‘Oh God,’ she whispered.

‘Your son is missing, and if you wish to help him, you’re going to have to
accede unquestioningly to my requests.’

She swallowed, fighting tears. ‘What do you want? Money? My husband
and I don’t have much, but—’

‘No, I don’t want money, Mrs Fleming. I want you.’

‘Me?’ she asked, her incredulity undisguised. ‘In exchange for Ross?’

Tm not offering an exchange, but if you want to see him again, you’re going
to have to stop asking questions and start following instructions.’

‘And I take it the first of those is not to talk to the police?’ she stated acidly.

‘You may talk to them if you wish, but they will not be able to help you.
They will only waste your time and your son’s time, and I cannot stress this
enough: time is not something you can afford to lose. Neither is your temper.’

‘Okay,’ Jane said. She composed herself, silenced her questions, calmed her
indignation. ‘Okay, what do you want?’

‘ need you, and you alone, to get to the address shown on the final image
and I need you to get there by this time tomorrow. That’s twenty-four hours
starting now.’

She toggled through the pictures until she came to one showing a black,
wrought-iron double gate. Beneath it, there was some text superimposed:

Rue Marisse
Le Muy
Region La Var
France

‘France? Tomorrow?’

Jane immediately began thinking about flights, trying to recall how much
money she had in her current account, how much credit on the Mastercard.
Then she remembered something dreadful.

‘But I don’t have a passport. It’s away being renewed. I don’t even have a
car. It’s just been written off.’

‘Then you can’t help your son. Goodbye.’

‘No, wait,’ she implored, but the line had gone dead. She stared, bereft, at
the phone, wishing she knew how to redial the last number, wishing she could
believe it would make a difference.

There was a knock at the door. The first-aider opened it a little and stuck
her head through the gap.

€h, the police were just wondering if you’re ready to talk to them yet.’

Jane nodded, holding up a finger to say she’d be a minute.

They will not be able to help you. They will only waste your time and your
son’s time.

The cold steel fist had gripped again when she saw Ross’s picture and heard
the words: Your son is missing. Now it was ready to develop into its full-blown
state: the helplessness, the paralysis, the agony of not knowing and the indig-
nity of not acting. Through the door and down the stairs lay a conversation
with the police, a deliverance of matters into their hands. It would not be an
interview: it would be an abdication, a resignation, and beyond it lay a seat
on the sidelines next to Tom to endure an endless, excruciating, impotent wait
for other hands to act. It would be the very antithesis of that which had seized
her, propelled her, electrified her as she fought to rescue Rachel. Today, she
had experienced what it was to feel truly alive, and, despite the circumstances
precipitating it, she’d found herself wishing for more. That wish had just been
granted. What on earth, she asked herself, at this moment, in this life of hers,
did she have to lose?

Only time.

She slipped the phone into her jacket breast pocket, picked up her bag and
headed for the stairs. There were two police waiting for her, one male, one
female, standing next to a table around which several members of staff were
seated. The place had been evacuated apart from witnesses, some of whom
were still waiting to give statements. The place was strangely still and quiet,
the climbing structure looking somehow smaller now that it was denuded of
its regular swarms.

The policewoman stepped forward as Jane came through the door leading
up to the ‘party room’, but Jane fended her off.

‘T’ve just got to nip to the Ladies,’ she told her, turning a hundred and eighty
degrees to go through an adjacent door.

Jane looked back to check whether she was being watched. Through the
wire-meshed glass panel on the window she could see the policewoman had
returned to conversation with her colleague. Good. She walked around the
L-bend beyond the Ladies and the baby-changing room. The Gents was on the

left, and dead ahead was an emergency exit. There was no question that this
constituted an emergency, but she knew it couldn’t provide her exit as the door
was alarmed, principally to prevent someone doing precisely what had been
attempted upon Rachel earlier. On the right was a third door, marked Staff
Only. Her long-earned familiarity with the building’s layout told her that it
must be the entrance to the kitchen, which she banked on being unoccupied as
all of the staff were out front continuing the group self-recrimination exercise
they’d embarked upon as soon as they learned what had happened.

She turned the handle and, to her relief, the door opened. As she entered,
she had it in her head that there was an outside door at the rear of the kitchen,
but couldn’t be sure whether this was something she had noted on her many
visits to buy coffees, juice and lollipops; something she had deduced logically
from considering a commercial kitchen’s health and safety requirements; or
something she had merely decided from raw, desperate need. Jane kept her
head low as she entered the room. A tall, stainless-steel shelving unit formed
the only screen between the cooking area and the serving counter, from be-
yond which she might be visible. She darted behind it and was relieved to
see that there was indeed an outside door, exactly where she had envisaged
it. She notched that one up to memory. For some reason, it seemed impor-
tant not to attribute it to a lucky break, perhaps because she, more than ever,
needed to believe she knew what she was doing.

The outside door was neither locked nor alarmed. She opened it quickly,
wincing a little as it squeaked, then pulled it behind her. She had a mind
not to close it fully, in case the noise brought any investigation, but there
was enough of a wind to threaten that it might bang shut on its own. She
delicately pressed it to, released the handle and began walking briskly along
the side of the building, heading towards the path that led to the supermarket
car park. A snidey voice in her head asked whether she had any idea where
she was actually going. It sounded a bit like Tom. She was slightly surprised
to already have a firm answer. That other, thousands of years older woman
was telling Tom to shut up and turn back to the football. This was women’s
work.

She knew exactly where she was going: the airport. She didn’t have a pass-
port, but it was the quickest way to get to the south coast of England where
she might exploit softer options than air travel for crossing the Channel. Other
means might be less security conscious, especially going in that direction; no-
body was particularly worried about the threat of people illegally sneaking
out of the country.

First, however, she needed wheels, and her own car wasn’t quite in show-
room condition right then. That was why she was heading to the supermarket,
where she could call a taxi; she had forty or so in cash in her purse, and reck-

oned twenty-five or thirty would cover it. Then that particular train of thought
derailed as she realised that paying her fare should barely be registering on
her list of priority considerations. In fact, if it appeared at all, it would be
categorised as an unnecessary and therefore unaffordable expense, and not
merely of money. She only had a few minutes before the police came looking
for her, and she of all people knew that at rush-hour a taxi could be at least
a quarter of an hour in responding to the call-out. To say nothing of the fact
that the driver would later be able to tell the cops where he’d taken her, and
she might well be caught up with again before she had the chance to get on
a plane. Not having broken any laws, they couldn’t physically restrain her,
but she felt it imperative to extricate herself from official interference, not
least because she wouldn’t fancy answering questions about what the hell she
thought she was doing.

She needed a car of her own and she needed it immediately. Her first notion
was to head for the supermarket’s petrol station, near the entrance to the car
park, but it was on the side of the hill and its forecourt in direct sight of Kaos
Kottage. It was also a rather conspicuous spot to be hanging around on foot,
even if she didn’t look a standard photo-fit for the type of potential twoccer of
whom most drivers were likely to be wary. Besides, who left their keys in the
ignition when they were filling up? She looked around. There were dozens,
acres of cars lined up in all directions. But not a drop to drink, she thought
ruefully. Then her eyes alighted upon the front of the supermarket, and she
knew exactly how to slake her thirst.

The car park was enormous, and even at busy times there were plenty of
spaces to be found if you drove a few rows back. Immediately to the left of the
entrance there was a row of specially reserved spaces for disabled drivers, de-
noted on the tarmac by yellow badges; while directly in front of the entrance,
there was a specially reserved space for four-by-four drivers, denoted by two
thick yellow lines.

She didn’t have to wait long, only a few minutes, and there was certainly
nothing conspicuous during that time about a lone woman standing expec-
tantly outside the doors of a supermarket, other than perhaps her lack of
shopping. A black BMW X5 soon pulled up, and as it approached she was
pleased to note that the driver was not hanging off the wheel and looking
searchingly into the shop. This was the explanatory body language offered
by those who were picking someone up, though it failed to also explain why
they couldn’t do this by simply finding a proper space and walking twenty
yards. Such inconveniences were presumably for lesser members of society
without such hectic and important lives, who could better spare the few sec-
onds it took to perambulate from those parking bays surely intended only for
the proletariat and their normal-sized vehicles.

Instead, she hit paydirt, seeing the hazard warning lights flash even before
the vehicle had come to a complete stop. The hazards were oscillating a
unique form of Morse code that Jane had learned to decipher thus: IN A
BIG HURRY STOP JUST NIPPING IN FOR ONE THING STOP CAN’T EXPECT
ME TO PARK THIS THING ALL THE WAY OVER THERE AND WALK JUST
FOR THE SAKE OF A PINT OF MILK STOP FOR GOD’S SAKE I’LL ONLY BE A
MINUTE STOP LOOK I’VE EVEN LEFT THE ENGINE RUNNING STOP.

Oh yes, you even have.

Jane watched the driver get out and jog through the automatic doors. She
quickly checked the rear for unseen junior passengers, then opened the vehicle
and climbed in. It was an automatic, which would make things simpler. Just
two pedals, one steering wheel and several tons of unnecessary bulk. She
wished Michelle was here for this moment.

You’ve never exactly been the essence of urban rebellion, have you? I don’t
think you’ve ever had a parking ticket.

Yes, honey, but that was the old me. You might prefer the new one. She’s a
car thief.

Jane put the beast into drive and hit the accelerator.

She got a bit of a fright when music suddenly started blaring at her from all
sides, and realised the stereo must have been changing CDs, like Catherine’s
Merc which had that thingy in the boot. It was an old punk-style number that
began playing, everyone in the band not so much trying to stay in time as each
trying to play faster than the rest. An angry, defiant and so very, very youthful
voice sounded insistently over it, entreating her to declare herself an unsafe
building.

‘{ think I just did,’ Jane said.

‘Hey Lex.’

‘Hey Reb.’

‘You doin’ okay?’

‘You ever shoot two people you’d just met, twice each in the head, and burn
their bodies?’

‘Not that I can recall.’

‘Well, that’s how I’m doin’.’

‘What’s your twenty?’

Tm currently headed north-west on the A-seven-twenty-six. I don’t have
eyes on the target, but I know where she’s headed.’

‘How’s she doin’?’

‘Oh, pretty good. She just aced grand theft auto on the first attempt. Availed
herself of a nice SUV, so she’s travelling in style.’

‘Where’s she travelling to?’

‘My money says GLA.’

‘So she gets on a plane to NCE and we take Air Bett back to base?’ Rebekah
asked optimistically.

‘Afraid not. She doesn’t have a passport — latest heads-up from Bett.’

‘Shit. So why aren’t we taking her? What’s the point in having your own
private chopper if—

‘I know, I know. That’s exactly what I said to him.’

‘Yeah, right. Sure you did.’

‘He said the parameters hadn’t changed. No intervention. I guess he wants
to see if she got game.’

Figures. If she can’t manage something as simple as evading border secu-
rity, she ain’t gonna handle the hard stuff too well. But if it doesn’t alter the
parameters, why the heads-up on the passport?’

‘So we'd know she couldn’t just jump on the first flight to the Céte d’Azure.
You know the deal: where she goes, I follow, and it looks like I’ll be taking the
long way around.’

‘Well, if you glance up from hurling your guts over the side of a ferry, I'll

give you a wave as I pass.’
Jane had to steel herself to ward off the potentially debilitating paranoia that
everyone on the road could see she was driving a stolen car, and that the
police would be forming road blocks right then somewhere around Rouken
Glen. Keep the heid, girl, she told herself, suspecting she’d have to get a lot
more comfortable with criminality if she was to reach her destination in time,
or indeed at all. Thinking rationally, the only possible outward indicator that
she didn’t own the X5 she was driving was that she wasn’t driving it like she
owned it, which would of course entail driving like she also owned the road.

She hit a bit of a tailback around Clarkston Toll, and came to a stop behind a
silver Saab as a telephone sounded inside the car, accompanied by a blinking
light to the left of the steering wheel. She noticed for the first time a tiny
black Nokia clamped to a hands-free unit. Tentatively, she reached out and
hit the green call button before remembering who the call would be intended
for. She was wrong, however. For the second time that day, a call on someone
else’s phone was intended for her, though this time the caller was a little less
informed.

‘Hello?’

‘Hell...’ he started, a little surprised perhaps to have got an answer. ‘Now
listen here. This is the person whose car you’ve just stolen. I don’t know who
the fuck you are, and I know you think you'll get away with this, but I’m tellin’
you, I’m gaunny fuckin’ find you, and when I do—

‘Excuse me, sir, she interrupted. ‘I don’t believe there’s any need for that
language, and I don’t think your threatening tone is very constructive either.’

‘Very cons— Who the fuck are you?’

‘I work for Safeway car-parks’ management. Your car hasn’t been stolen, it’s
been towed. We’ve removed the phone to my office here for security reasons.’

‘Towed? But I was only in the bloody shop two seconds.’

‘We’re having a crackdown on people parking in highly inappropriate and
inconsiderate places. We’re hoping that if you have to walk a few miles to
retrieve your vehicle, you'll consider it a shorter walk in future if you just park
in one of the many clearly marked spaces we provide.’

There was an enormously satisfying silence.

‘Sir?’

‘So where do I go to get my car back?’

All towed vehicles are impounded at our main depot in Bellshill.’

‘Bellshill? How am I supposed to... Okay. Right. Jesus. What’s the
address?’

Tm sorry, sir, you’re breaking up. I think the power’s running out on your

With which she hung up, giggling. That felt good. Damn, that felt good. At

the back of her mind - well, actually a lot nearer the front than that — there
remained the hollow, cold knowledge of why she was doing this, but its sheer
imperative compulsion was liberating her from all of her normal concerns
and compunctions. Right now, for once in her life, everybody else could ...
God, it had been so long since she’d said that word ... Everybody else could
... parenthood and grandparenthood had disciplined her out of using it, and
she’d even started thinking in the more guarded and polite terms that she
could tolerate the weans repeating. Everybody else could ... she’d said it all
the time, and worse, when she was younger, before she became Jane Fleming.
But today, she wasn’t Jane Fleming, not any more. She was Jane Bell again.
Blue Bell. And everybody else could fuck off.
She dumped the X5 in the short-stay car park nearest the terminal. It had
been tempting to slew it in front of Departures and just walk away, thus en-
suring that it really did get towed and impounded, but she knew from her taxi
experience that there would be plenty of polis patrolling up and down, and
didn’t want to run the risk of being stopped on her way into the building. Nor
would it be wise for the registration to be noted for any reason, given that the
owner would by now have ascertained from Safeway that they had nothing to
do with his vehicle’s disappearance.

The first plane to London was to Heathrow. She had it in her head that
Gatwick would be closer for getting to the coast, but it certainly wasn’t ninety

minutes closer, which was how much longer she’d have to wait for a flight
there.

It was the first time she’d ever just walked up to the counter and bought a
ticket, most of her previous flights being package charters booked months in
advance by Tom.

‘Return?’ the girl had asked, with unknowing poignancy.

‘No,’ Jane stated firmly. ‘One way.’

She paid with her credit card. It went through her mind that the transaction
was traceable, but it was only a ticket to London, and besides, the guy hadn’t
asked her to disappear, only to get there. She was starting to think like a
fugitive, perhaps even a criminal, and was surprised to consider this was no
bad thing.

She had about forty minutes before boarding, which she put to use planning
the next leg of the journey. Ten minutes or so on a walk-up interne terminal
outlined her options for crossing into France by train, either on foot at Ashford
via Eurostar or by car at Folkestone via Eurotunnel. The good news was the
services ran late enough that she should be able to make the trip that night.
The bad news was both websites’ boasts about passenger screening and secu-
rity. Neither option was going to be simple without a passport, which was the
issue she addressed during the remainder of her wait.

She went to an autoteller and lifted the maximum two hundred pounds in
cash, figuring the next fare she paid might present a discrepancy between the
card-bearer’s name and that of the passenger, especially given that she didn’t
know what that passenger’s name was yet. Then she went back downstairs
to the check-in area and looked at the screen listing international departures.
She took position by a pillar and watched the queue for a Tenerife charter,
carefully observing each party as they approached the desk. Looks and age
wouldn’t matter, as nothing she could effect was going to withstand close
scrutiny. It was all about opportunity, and she’d know it when she saw it.

It came in the form of four pensioners, all women, who took an unfeasible
time to accomplish the relatively simple process of depositing their luggage
and handing over their documents. Jane checked her watch. She’d have ten
minutes at the most, and at this rate the group she was watching would still
be arguing over who would sit where well after that had expired. Nonethe-
less, patiently but anxiously she waited, because they represented the best
chance. It was nothing to do with their disorganisation or any prejudiced
notion that their age would make them a more distractible target for pocket-
picking. It was quite simply their hand-luggage: three of them were carrying
open-topped, twin-handled bags, presumably all the better to tote more duty-
free, into which they had popped their tickets, boarding cards and passports.

Jane watched them bumble their way up the escalator and then followed at

a distance of a few yards. They made their way predictably to the shopping
mall on the upper level, where one of them broke away in stated search of
the toilets, leaving the others, as Jane had hoped, to browse in John Menzies.
The three of them tarried around the women’s magazines, all but blocking the
lane, which provided plausible cover for Jane to edge past, close-up against
each of them, looking down for the most attainable glimpse of burgundy vinyl.
The unlucky candidate had her hag slung over her shoulder by one strap,
rather than held at arm’s length, which put it at a convenient height for Jane
to reach inside as the woman stretched for a copy of the People’s Friend.

She walked unhurriedly out towards the domestic departure gate, unable
to stop herself thinking of the fact that her actions had just denied some poor
old wifey her holiday. There had been a horrible couple ahead of them in the
queue, a wee nyaff in unacceptable grey slacks and an absurd beige canvas
jacket, haranguing the check-in girl with affected incredulity about there not
being a smoking section on the plane, while his wife stood with her arms
folded, nodding her ‘aye, aye, that’s right’s in torn-faced agreement. Jane
would have been happy to torpedo their holiday, but the wee nyaff had taken
both their passports and zipped them into one of at least a dozen pockets on
his appalling outerwear. It was a pity, but pity was one more thing she was
going to have to get over. Before this thing was through, she feared she’d have
to be a lot more ruthless than this.

Jane stole her second car within forty minutes of touching down at Heathrow.
It would have been half that time, but she had an important bit of business
with a photo booth she’d needed to conclude before moving on. She acquired
herself a rather tasty green new-model Volkswagen Beetle on the first floor
of the Terminal One short-stay car park. A quick recce having established
that it was a pay-on-foot arrangement, she was not surprised to observe that,
in keeping with practices in Lanarkshire, most drivers who had forgotten to
pay opted not to re-park and walk to a machine. Instead, they generally
drove to the nearest pay-station and left their cars on the yellow chevrons
in front while they nipped behind the glass partition — engines running to
emphasise the intended brevity of their stop. Jane had waited less than five
minutes for her chance, bearing her own ticket that she’d gone downstairs to
the entrance barrier to procure before nipping up a level and paying, as the
signs instructed, on foot. On this occasion she’d seen the owner re-appear in
the rear-view mirror, running hopelessly after her stolen pride and joy, before
disappearing from view as Jane accelerated down the curving ramp.

‘Hey?

‘Hey?

‘Where you at, fly girl?’

‘Somewhere close to the sea, either Norfolk or Essex, not sure precisely. I
followed the coast, kept me away from the busiest ATC flight paths. Right
now I’m in a field, so there ain’t much to see.’

‘What are you doing in a field?’

‘Waiting. Air Bett doesn’t fly as fast as a BA 757, but nor does it require
one-hour check-ins and it doesn’t need to circle in the stack above LHR.’

‘Tell me about it.’

‘How’s our girl?’

‘Oh, so far so good. She’s now standing at two counts of GTA, plus one of
larceny. Given it was a passport, that probably comes into a higher category
than petty theft. Pretty clumsy lift, to be honest, but she got away with it.
Need to hope they don’t go checking the CCTV tapes from the store where she
made her move, but that’s not likely. The old lady she swiped it from probably
thinks she dropped it someplace.’

‘She’s robbing old ladies now, huh?’

‘Yeah. What have we created here? She’s a one-woman crime spree. And
to her running total I think we can probably add forgery. She stopped at a
twenty-four-hour supermarket a ways back. I didn’t follow her in, but she was
pretty busy in the car for a while before hitting the freeway again.’

‘I think they call them motorways here.’

‘Well hark at you, Lady Rebekah. One day in England and you're an expert.’

‘Where is she now?’

‘Folkestone. Channel Tunnel rail terminus.’

‘You called that right, then.’

‘Easy enough. I logged on to the web terminal she’d used at the airport and
checked what she’d been looking at.’

‘Can you do that?’

‘I can do that.’

Figures. Easy for some, huh?’

‘Tricky part was Heathrow. I booked a hire car online before boarding the
flight, but I couldn’t collect until I knew what she was driving. Had to stand
right by and watch while a vehicle was stolen in front of my eyes. The scandal.
Good job she helped herself to something distinctive. I caught her up after
about forty minutes. She was sticking to the limit to avoid the cops. But so
far so good, and now we’re going underground.’

‘Only if her forgery skills pass muster.’

‘A condition that couldn’t be more prominent in my mind right now, Reb. Or
hers. Looks like they examine your dots at a drive-through checkpoint. She’s
two cars away from finding out. Correction, one car now.’

‘You got a contingency if this goes belly-up?’

‘Yeah. I’m gonna step in as a Scottish cop and say she’s already wanted
north of the border.’

‘They got a lot of Canadian cops over here, then?’

Tll fake the accent.’

‘Sounds like her forgery skills really are our best hope.’

‘Thanks for the vote of confidence. Oh, hang on. Here we go. Her turn.’

‘Fingers crossed.’

‘Come on, come on, come on. Drive forward, girl, drive forward. Go on,
man, wave her through. Wave her... oh shit. Oh fuck, this don’t look good.
She’s getting out of the car. He’s coming out of the booth. Reb, I gotta go.’
Jane had done a lot of scary things already that day, but none of them had
made her feel as anxious as this, because none of them had made her feel
so literally hemmed in. At all other junctures and dilemmas, there had been
options, the safety net of alternatives. That, in fact, was really why she’d
driven past the Ashford off-ramp and carried on to Folkestone. Ashford was
for walking passengers only, and the literature promised airport-style security
measures. Passport control was these days the least stringent aspect of such
regimes, but it would most likely still be enough to rumble her Blue Peter
effort, and the means of distraction she had in mind could only be pulled off
if she had space and privacy to work. Folkestone and its drive-on channels
offered that, but the moment she entered one of them, it felt very much like a
last resort.

There’d been one final alternative before this, which she’d also had in mind
as she ignored the Ashford exit on the M20, one that might eschew the need
for a passport at all. With it being a popular alternative to the ‘booze cruise’
(the Chunnel funnel?) she reckoned there would be a few transit vans with
empty storage compartments on their way to the Calais hypermarkets. Stow
away in the back of one of those, then get driven on to the train and she
wouldn’t even have to spring for the fare. On the other hand, she didn’t know
whether the first thing the officials did was throw open the doors and check
there weren’t six fare-dodgers inside. In the event, the opportunity hadn’t
arisen. She’d only encountered a single such van that was parked, and didn’t
think she could sneak aboard one waiting in the queue without the driver
hearing noises from the back. The stationary one was outside the terminal
complex, and she had given the doors a try as she passed on her way to buy
a ticket, but they were locked. It was unsurprising. People were bound to be
extra vigilant these days, everyone terrified of returning to HM Customs and
finding half-a-dozen Somalians lying in the back, pished out of their faces on
your Euro-bewvy.

So that had left her exercising her final option, here at the terminus, the
end of the line. She knew it was all or nothing when she guided the Beetle
into the approach lane, but the real ice-in-the-gut sensation had come when a
car pulled up behind her, meaning there was no way out but forward.

She waited until there were only three cars to go before opening her bag
and removing some of her recent purchases. There had been an all-night
Tesco just off the motorway, where, in addition to some clean knickers and a
toothbrush, she picked up some scissors, a transparent plastic wallet and some
Prittstick, as well as clearing their entire shelf-stock of red food colouring. The
photo page on the passport wouldn’t bear any kind of close inspection, though
she hadn’t done too bad a job of switching the pics. The first thing they were
there to establish was that you were carrying a passport at all. After that, the
degree of vigilance could be reduced under the right circumstances, or at least
that’s what she was relying upon.

She removed a couple of hankies from the packet and then began emptying
some bottles of food colouring on to them. She surveyed the results. It had
been a veritable cochineal-beetle bloodbath, but not bloody enough for her
satisfaction. The stuff just didn’t run properly, and looked too damn pink
as soon as it hit any kind of material, even under the artificial light of the
terminus’ floodlamps. Worse, on the flesh of her hand, it looked like nothing
other than dye. She’d thought about beetroot back at the store, but the smell
was potentially too much of a giveaway.

The Audi two places in front moved on, taking her one car length closer to
the booth.

There was only one way to do this properly, and it wasn’t going to be pleas-
ant. She bent down out of sight, balled her right hand into a fist and drove it
against her nose.

Ow.

It hurt like buggery, bringing tears to her eyes but no blood to her nostrils.

Shit. She tried again. Sorer, cumulatively, but probably more tentative than
the first attempt and thus no more successful. She looked up. The car in front
was being waved forward to the window.

Jane bent forward again with renewed determination. She’d been through
a sight more pain than this for Ross: thirteen hours’ labour to deliver just over
eight pounds of baby, most of it head. This was nothing.

She remembered accidentally bursting Margaret Heron’s nose at netball in
third year, her horrified insistence to the victim and the teacher that she hadn’t
thrown the ball hard. Don’t worry, Miss Kane had said. It wasn’t the force, it
was the angle.

Jane turned the heel of her right palm towards her and brought it upwards
on to the bridge. The running sensation commenced almost immediately. Her

nose began streaming blood from her left nostril, dripping messily on to her
hands and the bunched-up hankies. She lifted the passport and tickets and
let it trickle on to those too, then looked up to see her car being waved for-
ward by the man in the booth, an older bloke with white hair and a matching
moustache.

Jane brought the Beetle in line with the window, holding the hankies up
to her nose with her left hand, gripping the steering wheel with her right.
She gestured with a single finger — give me a minute — then held her head
back against the seat. The man in the booth was mouthing Are you all right?’,
which reminded her that her window wasn’t wound down. Instead of reaching
for the button, she undid her seat belt and climbed right out of the car, holding
the passport, tickets and hankies together against her face with her left hand
as her right worked the handle. Blood continued to drip from her face and
hands as she stood next to the Beetle.

‘Are you hurt, madam?’

She shook her head.

It’s okay. It just came on like that. Usually an early warning sign of a bad
cold, with me. Typical timing.’

She offered him the ticket and passport, blood still running among her fin-
gers and on to the documents as she held them out. His hand hesitated visibly,
signalling his queasy reluctance to even touch them, never mind take hold. He
delicately pinched the passport at a blood-free corner, the ticket falling to the
ground. They both went to lift it, but he got there first.

‘No, no, keep your head back,’ he advised.

She did, but tilted it slightly to look down as the inspector bent to retrieve
the ticket. He pulled it partially out of its paper wallet as he stood up again,
gripping both parts where there were no smears. The passport remained
pinched between his left forefinger and thumb.

‘Maybe I should get someone to take a look at you.’

Tll be fine in a minute, honestly, Jane assured him. ‘Besides, I don’t want
to hold everybody up.’ She glanced back along the queue, as did the passport
inspector, still holding both documents extremely gingerly.

All right, well, just take your time, dear, he said. ‘If any of ’em toots their
horns, I'll sign ’em up for full body-cavity searches.’

Jane laughed through the hankies, eyeing the passport. He still hadn’t
checked it.

‘I think it’s easing up,’ she said, pinching her nose with her right hand. She
offered her left to take the documents. ‘Sorry about the mess.’

Just you look after yourself, he told her. He seemed about to hand her
the documents, then pulled back. A well-practised flick of the wrist opened
the passport at the photo page, at which he grimaced, blood having been

splattered across both sides of the hinge like a Rorschach test. He let it close
on itself and placed it into her waiting hand with another queasy grimace.

‘Thank you,’ she told him, and took a step back towards the car.

‘Have you got your vehicle papers, madam?’ he asked.

Jane felt her eyes widen before she could do anything to compose herself.

‘In... in the glove compartment,’ she recovered enough to suggest, though
she had no idea what, if anything, lay in there, only that none of it would be
in the right name.

‘Okay. It’s just a reminder in case people have forgotten. Going to the
continent and all.’

‘No, I’m all present and correct.’

All right, then. I’'d say mind how you go, but it looks like I’m too late,’ he
added with a little laugh.

Jane got back into the Beetle and dropped the documents on to the passen-
ger seat. Her instinct was to put the foot down and drive away immediately,
but she had to quell it. Instead, she sat with the hanky at her nose for another
few seconds, offering the man a smile and a thumb-up gesture, then pulled
slowly forwards, one hand still pinching her snib, towards where a girl in a
brightly coloured jumpsuit was waving cars into slots aboard the train.

In her rear-view she could see the passport man, back in his booth, leaning

out to greet the next driver. Sigh was too short a word for the exhalation that
followed.
Jane opted to stay in the Beetle rather than take a seat on the train. She could
have seriously done with a coffee right then, but considered it more circum-
spect to remain out of view. A sudden, in-progress nosebleed explained her
condition to the passport officer, but her appearance might prove disturbing —
memorably, remarkably disturbing — to her fellow passengers.

Weird. There’d been clothes at the all-night supermarket, but it hadn’t oc-
curred to her to lift any, just the spare undies. All her thinking was pared
down to essentials. She didn’t know how much money she might need, and
was even less sure how much she actually had, liquid or credit, so spending
any of it on even cheap jeans and a T-shirt seemed an unaffordable luxury and
possibly a reckless financial gamble.

She had a look at herself in the sun-visor mirror. Blood still rimmed her nos-
trils and smeared her top lip. Her hands were sticky with it, her clothes dotted
by it. She definitely, definitely wouldn’t be getting those trousers repaired.

Yes. Best to remain hidden right enough.

Some chamber in her mind echoed with a recall of the last time she looked
in a mirror. Was it really that morning? It already felt like years ago, some
memory of an earlier time in her life.

Even in the insulated and suspension-cushioned capsule of the VW, she felt
the train begin to decelerate, prompting another quickening of the pulse and
tightness in the gut. She hoped to hell the website had been right about
clearing all officialdom at the English end and simply driving clear at Calais.

An announcement over the PA announced their imminent arrival and in-
formed her that the local time was an hour ahead of GMT. She looked at the
dashboard’s digital clock, which read 11:05: only eight hours since she’d been
watching the weans play at Kaos Kottage in East Kilbride.

The train stopped and only a few seconds later the huge side doors slid
back, allowing cars to begin filing out. She started the engine and pulled
away slowly. There were no booths, no officials, no customs checks: just an
overhead sign reminding her to drive on the right, and, beyond it, open French
road. She put her foot down and enjoyed a moment of blessed relief, which
turned very soon into fatigue. With the pressure off — for the time being, at
least — her aching body was able to get a word of protest heard above the rest
of the voices clamouring in her head.

She had already decided to drive all the way rather than flying to Nice.
A look at the road atlas she’d bought at the supermarket told her she could
probably manage it in about ten hours. A flight would be far quicker, but not
if it turned out that the first one out of Charles De Gaulle wasn’t until three
in the afternoon. Plus, she’d still need a car when she got there, and saw no
point in taking on the risk of stealing another one.

A neon sign in the middle distance advertised a roadside motel. It was
a chain name, a modest, low-rise and low-frills kind of place, conveniently
anonymous. She came off at the next exit and drove into the car park, where
she spent a few minutes cleaning herself up, employing the practised-mother’s
hanky-and-saliva method every daughter naively swears she’ll never use her-
self. She checked her reflection again. It wasn’t a pretty sight, but at least only
for the usual reasons. It would do. She didn’t want to attract anyone’s interest
or solicitations, and a lone female looking bashed-up would do precisely that.
They’d think she must be on the run from someone scary and dangerous, but
the truth was worse. She was on the run to someone scary and dangerous,
and she couldn’t afford to have anyone prevent her from doing so.

The room was clean and basic, though it did have a phone, which prompted
a reminder that there were people back home who’d be very worried and not
a little confused by now. She lifted the receiver, then placed it back down
again without dialling any digits, before pulling the mobile phone from her
jacket. No point in having the charge go on to her room bill; she’d let the
mystery caller pay for it. In fact, she’d half a mind to dial her cousin Grace in
New Zealand and leave it connected until the batteries ran out.

Instead, she called Michelle, finding it engaged. She tried her mobile in-

stead, but it was switched off, probably for recharging given the hour. Jane
remembered hearing Donald chide Michelle over this unnecessary practice,
but she had retorted with something about not actually wanting to be phoned
at that time of night, especially as the chances were it would be a confused
Junior House Officer who’d misread the rota and phoned the wrong pharma-
cist.

Jane waited five minutes and tried again. Still engaged. Reluctantly, she
dialled her own number. She’d hoped to have Michelle pass on the news to
Tom, but she couldn’t wait all night. She’d just give him a few bullet points
and get off before he could start the histrionics.

That line was busy too. Reason told her they were most probably on the
phone to each other. She could get through on Tom’s mobile, she knew, which
was when she was forced to admit to herself that she really didn’t want to
talk to him right then; only Michelle. She looked at the clock, calculating how
much sleep she could hope to get before she’d need to be on the road again.
It wasn’t a lot, and it was ticking away against the pulsating sound of engaged
tones.

Forget it, she thought. They’d be worried, sure, but she had to focus, priori-
tise. Their worries weren’t her biggest concern. Sleep was more important.

She got undressed and climbed into bed. Twenty minutes later, she knew
she had no chance of sleep without letting them know she was okay. That,
whatever else she told herself, was immediate priority number one. She gave
Michelle’s number one more try.

‘Mum! Where the hell are you? What’s happened?’

Tm okay.’

‘The police have been round. They said you just disappeared. Dad’s up to
high doh. Where are you calling from?’

‘Never mind about me. Is Rachel okay?’

‘Never mind? Rachel’s fine, but the rest of us are worried sick. Nobody
could find you, and we didn’t know what to think, after what happened today,
and then ... it was on TV about two burned bodies being discovered out by
Calder Glen, and we were terrified that ...’

Tm sorry. I should have called sooner, but I never had the chance.’

‘Why? Where are you?’

‘can’t say. Look, I can’t talk long. I just wanted you to know—

‘You can’t talk... Mum, what’s happened? Oh God. Are you... Is someone
else there? Are you under some kind of duress? Just say “I’m fine” if that’s the
case.’

‘There’s no one else here, honey. Keep the heid. There’s just something I
have to do.’

‘Like what? Why can’t you tell me? What’s going on?’

‘I have to go now, honey. I’ll be in touch. Call your dad for me, would you,
please?’

‘Me? Why aren’t you calling him? What the hell do you want me to tell
him?’

‘Tell him ...’ Jane took a breath. ‘Not to wait up.’

The sensation of coming around to the sound of the telephone’s automated
alarm call was the only evidence Jane had of actually having been asleep.
It seemed like she’d just lain there all night feeling sore and beat, her head
whirring as it processed memory and prepared for what was to come. There
was no moment of bleary disorientation, no waves of reality crashing in to
wash away the merciful oblivion of her dream-state. The second she was
conscious, at exactly five a.m., she knew exactly where she was and what she
had to do. She got up, pulled her clothes back on and checked out, before
grabbing breakfast from a vending machine in the lobby: a styrofoam cup
of bad coffee and a cellophane-wrapped pain au chocolat. She placed the
coffee in the Beetle’s cup holder and the pastry on the dashboard, beginning
to consume both only once she was on the autoroute south.

Dawn broke some time after six. A crisp blue sky was revealed above,
spring sunshine lighting the fields and bringing up the temperature on her
instrument panel. Jane had always wanted to drive through France, and had,
in her fantasies, imagined a sunny day just like the one that was shaping up,
but she wasn’t going to be stopping to take the air and see the sights. She just
drove, eyes on the tarmac and the traffic, singularly and tirelessly mowing
down the miles towards her destination, though it seldom left her thoughts
that she had no idea what awaited her there.

I don’t want money, Mrs Fleming. I want you.

What on earth did she have that this person could possibly want?

She tossed their brief conversation around and around in her head, trying
to assess what could be inferred, what differences there might be between
what he was saying and what she had interpreted him to mean.

I’m not offering an exchange.

She didn’t know who this man was or what he had to do with Ross. What
she did know was that he had taken pictures of Ross’s ransacked apartment,
and had been the one who broke it to her that her son was missing.

It hit her with a sudden chill that maybe she was in the process of delivering
to this man the very thing that Ross didn’t want: a weapon to use against him.
What if the guy wanted Ross to do something, give him something, tell him
something, but he wouldn’t comply?

Believe me, this is not about Rachel.

How better to force his cooperation than to get hold of someone close to
him? Rachel in the first instance, then, when that didn’t work out, get his dear
old mother to hand herself over.

But then she remembered: the phone had been secreted by that girl at
the supermarket, before the attempt on Rachel. In any case, right then it
didn’t matter what it might or might not be about, what she could interpret or
deduce. All that mattered was the one thing she knew for certain: if he said
the only way to help her son was to get to this address, then she was going,
as he put it, to accede unquestioningly to his request.

She made a couple of stops to fill up the tank and to stretch her legs, but
she wasn’t feeling the long haul as too much of a strain. Jane had always
enjoyed driving, especially long distance on open roads like this, or in the city
at night when the streets were quiet, these being the times you could really
buy into that romantic notion of the car being an instrument of freedom. It
was a good deal harder to believe that the road could take you anywhere
when you were stuck on the M8 at Shawhead, the traffic moving slow enough
for you to read, ‘Wash me, please’ and ‘No hand signals - driver having a
wank’ scrawled on the grimy rear of the artic in front. Having provided an
on-call, zero-notice free taxi service for Ross and Michelle for the best part
of two decades, it was perhaps inevitable that it would occur to her to give
it a go for real, especially when the alternative of an evening was sharing
the living room with Vegetable Man and Henrik Larsson. That was arguably
the greatest factor in her decision to start private-hire driving: avoiding the
tandem isolation of two people who lived alongside each other rather than
together; driving around in the darkness because it was too late to truly run
away.

They weren’t meant to be joined at the hip, and they weren’t meant to share
all of each other’s enthusiasms, but at the very least they were meant to be
pals, weren’t they? She and Tom weren’t pals. They were like workmates
with nothing else in common but this shared occupation, speaking without
saying anything other than the necessary technical discussion that the job in
hand entailed. Right now, the job was living together and sometimes being
grandparents. In the past, as mum and dad to two kids, there had been more
to it, and for that it had been easier to ignore what was missing.

Of course, there was a lot more to being a taxi driver than having a set of
wheels at her disposal or merely a passable knowledge of Lanarkshire geog-
raphy. For example, you didn’t just need to know how to get somewhere, you
had to know how long it would take in the prevailing traffic conditions, so
that you and the dispatcher could think two or sometimes three jobs ahead. It
required an ability to read customers and situations, to anticipate the obsta-
cles and delays and to understand the crucial differences between what the

fare told you and what he or she actually meant. Most of this she learned
the hard way, such as how a call-out to a pub at eleven o’clock didn’t mean
the fare had any firm intention of leaving the establishment at least until he’d
finished the round he’d got in at last orders. Some of the drivers seemed to
have a sixth sense, always managing to be in the right area as a fare came
up, thus avoiding idling or long, passenger-free jaunts between pick-ups, but
really this was all down to experience.

Her first fare was the most nerve-racking, even though it was just picking
up some old wifey outside Safeway and taking her home with a boot full of
messages. All the way there, she’d felt disproportionately apprehensive and
could feel her cheeks redden in anticipation of being somehow found out.
Tom’s encouraging words — ‘You’re kidding yourself on and you'll be back
here in an hour’ — rang in her ears, in the end providing ample motivation
through spite. It also reminded her that while she might be kidding herself
on, the fares wouldn’t know that she hadn’t been doing this for ten years.
In the case of her debut, the old wifey gave no indication of suspecting she
was in less than experienced hands, though the fact that she proffered a fiver
unprompted once Jane had dumped the last of her bags on her doorstep did
save Jane from walking away without remembering to ask for payment. After
that, she just relaxed and got on with it.

She went out four or five evenings a week, sometimes more. At first she’d
start after dinner, just as Tom was reattaching the armchair’s umbilicus, but
in time she progressed to eating earlier on her own and leaving a portion for
him to microwave. She enjoyed it, on the whole. There were times when it
was boring, but never as boring as being stuck in that living room, and even
on the quietest nights, she still got more conversation than she would had she
stayed home.

Some talked from the minute they climbed into the car, others said no more
than their destination. She could usually tell what she was in for from the off.
If they sat up front, they wanted company, and you were in with a better shout
of a tip too, as they weren’t going to treat you like you worked below stairs.
There was no code of client confidentiality as guarded the consulting room,
the couch or the confessional, but there still seemed an assumption that what
was said in the car was sacrosanct, as she’d been party to the most unguarded
and indiscreet personal revelations from people who’d only met her less than
ten minutes back.

The fares didn’t actually need to speak to grant her glimpses into their lives,
and often they were lives you wouldn’t want any more than a glimpse into.
Poverty, squalor, desperation and so much loneliness. Destination Hairmyres
or Wishaw General, ferrying worried and sometimes bereaved relatives to and
from their last hours with loved ones. Angry wee men, seething all the way

home from the pub, no amount of drink enough to anaesthetise their grudge
against the world at large, turning Jane’s thoughts to the poor dear who would
be opening the door to that in a few minutes. Young women, out of their faces
despite the bumps swelling their waistbands. A moonlight flit while an abusive
partner is out of the house, Jane being treated with a reverent gratitude like
she was one of the emergency services, and pleaded with not to disclose her
destination to anyone.

It certainly afforded her a sharp perspective upon where her own com-
plaints ranked in the grand scheme, though humility and consolation were
not the same thing. In her grandmother’s words, ‘There’s always somebody
worse aff than yoursel”, and there was a difference between being grateful for
what you had (or hadn’t) and settling for it. Jane had a comfortable home
and an honest, dutiful husband, even if she didn’t want to be there spending
time with him. She wasn’t abused, she wasn’t bereaved and she wasn’t dying
a slow, painful death.

Just a slow, numb one.

She got glimpses into better lives, too. Having brought up Ross and
Michelle, she’d long ago made her peace with the younger generation be-
ing the ones who had all the fun, but it wasn’t them she was jealous of. She
drove people who were her age or older to restaurants, bars, hotels, theatres,
the airport, and it wasn’t the good times they were in for that made her envi-
ous; at least, not entirely. It was the good times they were having before they
stepped into her car, before they dialled the cab firm’s number, before they
booked the table or the tickets.

And then there had been that one, most haunting night that had stayed
with her such a long time after, like a secret stolen treasure, and yet one that
ached to recall. The fare was a guy in his mid-forties, going to King Tut’s Wah
Wah Hut in town. She didn’t get much of a look at him in the few seconds the
inside light came on before he closed the door and extinguished it. He had a
full head of flecked salt-and-pepper hair, she saw that much, and was wearing
jeans and a leather overcoat.

As predicated by his choice of seat, they talked, or rather, mostly he talked.
He was off out to see some band Jane had never heard of, though it was
twenty years since that distinction would have put the said performers into
any exclusive percentile of obscurity.

‘Me and the missus don’t go oot much any mair, just the odd restaurant a
couple of times a month,’ he said. ‘But I’ll be staunin’ in these places wi’ a
Zimmer, because it makes me feel the same as it did when I was my weans’
age, you know? The atmosphere, the smell of drink and smoke, the posters
on the walls, folk gettin’ aff wi’ each other in the corners. That rush when the
lights go doon. Pure magic. It never changes.’

Clearly, he didn’t ken the score.

He was still blethering away enthusiastically as they reached his destina-
tion. When Jane put the overhead light on to take the fare, she finally got
a good look at his face and confirmed her growing suspicion that she knew
him. Ferguson, had been the job name. Iain Ferguson. Ferret. That’s how he’d
been known, though only as a convenient corruption of his surname and no
reflection upon his physical appearance or libidinous conduct. This was worth
stressing given that Jane remembered having sex with him, in a drunken and
barely competent, but nonetheless enjoyable, one-night stand.

He paid the fare, giving her a twenty-pound note to cover a seventeen-
pound ride. She thanked him and told him she hoped he enjoyed the show.
He hadn’t recognised her and she chose not to jog his memory.

She was idling in town when the call came for the return trip. It was often
worth hanging around in the city centre at that time of a Saturday night if a
fare had taken you in there already, but she knew not to be kidding herself.
She had waited because she wanted the job.

She walked down the basement steps and into the bar, which was deserted
but for a couple of staff and a girl in goth garb placing club flyers on to the
empty tables. She could hear the thrum of the music from the venue proper
upstairs, could feel the bass vibrate around the building.

‘Taxi,’ she explained as a barman approached, ready to take an order. ‘It’s
for—

‘On you go up,’ he said, nodding to the door that led to the stairs. ‘Band’s
no’ finished. Or you can stay here if you prefer. You want a drink?’

Tll go up,’ she decided, enticed by curiosity and a desire to revisit the scene
of a cherished moment.

It had been less than half full on that occasion, the audience less than half
enthusiastic, which was to be expected given that the headliners weren’t due
on-stage for another ninety minutes at the time. None of that had diluted
Jane’s sense of electrification, because the rest of the crowd didn’t see what
she was seeing. They were watching the first of two unknown support acts;
she was watching her baby girl on bass guitar.

Tonight, however, it was packed to the rafters and late in the proceedings.
She shuffled further inside to get a view of the stage, her vantage point also
affording a clear perspective on the exit, in case her fare should walk out past
her. It only took a few moments watching the band to know that wasn’t going
to happen until they had finished. The singer clutched a mike stand, guitar
slung around his neck, an imposing bear of a man, grinning wickedly as he
spoke. Jane was confessedly out of touch with this kind of thing, but she could
still tell that he had the whole place eating from the palm of his hand. They’d
listen to him if he sang until dawn, and a glint in his eye said he might just

stay and do that. He even sang as much: ‘T’ve fifteen hours to burn and I’m
gonna stay up all night.’

When he sang, his voice was a nightclub: smoky, sultry, seductive, intoxicat-
ing, sleazy, euphoric, threatening, dark, dark, dark and an irresistible tempta-
tion. Jane thought of the old legend about the blues guitarist waiting at the
crossroads to do a deal with the devil. This guy would have dragged the devil
to the nearest bar, drunk him under the table, fleeced him and then laughed
him out of town.

Jane was soon under the spell too. She knew that what she’d brought with
her was a factor. Memories and forgotten dreams, echoes of a girl she’d once
been and perhaps the other women she might have turned into. ‘It’s Saturday
night, baby,’ the singer kept calling out. Sometimes it seemed incorporated
into his lyrics, and at other times it was simply a spontaneous, ecstatic excla-
mation. ‘Hey Glasgow, it’s Saturday night!’ He did it with such rapture, such
a sense of celebration that Jane realised she had long ago forgotten why. Sat-
urday night was meaningless when every day was the same, when you were
never going to do anything special with it anyway. But this was a stirring
reminder of what it used to mean. Saturday night, Saturn’s night. The night
of misrule. The time when you threw off cares and conventions and thought,
the devil take tomorrow - right now I’m going to live for me. When had she
last looked forward to Saturday night? When had she last thought: I’m gonna
stay up all night, fifteen hours to burn or not?

She dropped Ferguson off, finished her shift and went home to bed, where
she utterly failed to get to sleep. At first this was because her ears were still
ringing from the music and she was still a little too exhilarated to switch off
and let her fatigue pull her under. But as she lay awake, she found herself
thinking about Ferguson: daft, desperate projections. The two of them going
out to a bar where music was playing, maybe before a band took the stage,
talking about the old days, talking about where life had taken them since,
talking about what they still wanted, talking, talking, talking. That could
happen, couldn’t it? That was plausible: each of them finding a companion to
go to places neither his wife nor her husband could be dragged along to. That
was how it could begin, maybe, and then perhaps they might find themselves
doing other things their spouses weren’t interested in any more.

No, that was silly, wasn’t it? It was just a fantasy, but the pleasure of it told
her something about herself that she couldn’t unlearn. She hadn’t simply been
fantasising about sex, nor even simply fantasising about having an affair. She
was fantasising about being in a different marriage.

She didn’t see Ferguson again, and the chances of doing so were seriously
diminished by being forced to give up the private-hire work. Circumstances
had forced her to give up plenty of things down the years, but this was the

one that really rankled. She was let go by the cab firm.

She knew trouble was on its way when she was told there had been com-
plaints about her driving. She was too slow, the manager said. Customers
expected her to put the foot down at times and she hadn’t been prepared to
do so. This not only made customers late, it made for unacceptable delays
between jobs.

A few passengers had complained to her that she was too cautious while she
was driving, but neither they nor the firm could seriously expect her to break
the speed limit or blaze through amber lights in the name of the job. She
had a clean licence and hadn’t broken any laws since her last under-age tipple
or possibly her last illegally taped LP. Nobody could demand that she change
that, she told the manager, but despite a protracted exchange of views on the
subject, they both knew that it was nothing to do with the real problem. The
real problem, about which this was a coded ultimatum, was that she refused
to do ‘drops’.

The cab firm had recently come under new ownership, not that its previous
owner had any intention of selling until about six hours before the paper-
work - and a baseball bat — were put in front of him. The new proprietor was
one Anthony Connelly, who was building a monopoly of private-hire compa-
nies in Lanarkshire, the better to control and distribute the drugs from which
he made his real money. He’d started with the biggest firms in the area, but
not even smaller outfits like the one Jane worked for were immune, and she
quickly learned why. ‘Drops’ were passengerless fares, door-to-door deliveries
of all Class-A varietals. Connelly didn’t need every outfit in the area in or-
der to meet logistical demands; he needed every outfit in the area so that the
drivers would be forced to comply, cutting off the option to quit and go work
for an untainted firm.

Jane considered quitting anyway, both on principle and as a matter of per-
sonal safety, but a more defiant part of her didn’t want to just melt away for
the convenience of these people. It they wanted rid of her, they would have
to come out and blatantly admit why.

After the ‘slow driving’ warning, she expected to be binned outright the
next time she refused to respond to a drop call, but it didn’t happen like
that. Rumours were rife of the threats and coercions that had been applied
to drivers by Connelly’s foot-maggots, so she got pretty jumpy at the ensuing
lack of consequences. Almost a week passed, and it felt like too long a silence.
But it turned out that this was a courtesy, and she was a special case.

Connelly, she knew, had been in Tom’s year at both primary and secondary
school, and, while it wouldn’t be fair to say that Tom refused to hear a word
against him, his own words about the man were far from condemnatory. He
was a decent enough guy at school, Tom told her. Not one of the nutters.

Could look after himself, but never a bully, never gave Tom a hard time, stuck
up for him once, blah blah blah. Nor did it hurt Tom’s estimations that the
duplicitous creep went to Mass every Sunday at his parish, to maintain his
respectable public face.

It was probably true of every little clique, coven and insular community
on earth, and therefore unfair to single one particular sect, but Jane found it
sickening that Connelly’s charade was indulged by the likes of her husband
on the rationale that he might be a drug-dealing gangster, but at least he’s a
Catholic drug-dealing gangster.

She came home one night to find Connelly’s Mercedes parked outside the
house, and as she walked up the drive, Tom was showing him out the front
door, the pair all joking and genial. He patted Tom on the back as he walked
away, but barely looked Jane in the eye as he passed.

‘What did he want?’ she asked Tom accusingly.

‘You’d better come in and have a seat,’ he said.

Then he laid it down, not that any of it was news. Connelly had used allu-
sion and euphemism, Tom indulging him the moral cowardice of his language
like he indulged him his pillar-of-the-community fantasy on a Sunday. There
was trouble in the air, dangers Tom wouldn’t want his wife exposed to. The
minicab business wasn’t what it once was in this neck of the woods, no place
for a lady. He’d come as an old friend and fellow parishioner; a courteous
letting-down-gently but an unquestionable letting-down nonetheless.

Tom had indulged Connelly, but Jane didn’t indulge Tom. She spelled out
what was really going on and demanded to hear Connelly’s every word and
nuance. Tom looked regretful and exasperated.

‘I don’t approve of what he does, but we don’t want to be on the wrong side
of a guy like that, do we? And you don’t want to be involved with all this,
surely? Let it go, Jane.’

She knew she had to, but it stung, and she hated Tom for letting himself be
Connelly’s instrument. She couldn’t have expected him to defy or antagonise
such a man, but she did expect him to have a little dignity, on both their
behalfs. Tom had let the guy patronise him, kid him on that he was treating
him with respect. It made her sick, and it felt like such a betrayal, something
not helped by the fact that Tom got what he wanted from it, too. It brought
an end to this latest daft dalliance; and there would be no more microwaved
dinners to tolerate, either.

She reached the village of Le Muy just after three o’clock, having missed the
turn-off the first time and then doubled back to approach from the opposite
direction. It was just a daft oversight, a misreading of the right-hand exit
lane, and it probably only cost her five or six minutes, but it told her how

tightly wound she was that every second the autoroute took her away from
her destination felt like miles.

It looked a quiet little place. In fact, for the most part, it looked shut, and
it was only when she located the local poste that she found an establishment
open for business at this sleepy time of the day. She knew practically no
French, but for a few phrases still rattling around her head since sitting her
Higher at the age of seventeen. The teller didn’t know much English either,
but, fortunately, giving him a look at the address on the phone’s LCD was
enough to convey what she required. He started babbling lots of a gauches
and a droits before remembering how little any of it meant to her and, more
helpfully, drawing a map. She thanked him and returned to the Beetle.

She’d have thanked him more if he could have told her what the place she
was looking for actually was, but, as it wasn’t identified by anything more
than a tiny image of some black gates, it was perhaps a little much to ask.
Rue Marisse, when she found it, began a couple of streets north of the village
square, before snaking its way right out of town. She drove along it slowly,
flanked at first by tall terraced buildings, uniformly shuttered, before these
gave way to lower walls and eventually bushes and trees. After her recent
experience overshooting the autoroute, it occurred to her to go back and look
again in case she had missed something: perhaps the gates covered a passage
between buildings, and they were unseen for being opened inwards against
the walls.

Instinct and reason overruled. It made sense that the place be out of town,
isolated. If this guy’s reach was long enough to hand her a phone in EK,
then she somehow couldn’t picture him living up a close. She drove on, the
windows down to let in some cool air as the afternoon sun warmed the car.
She passed fields, vineyards, walled orchards. She wished she could bank
how it looked, how it smelled, the feeling of the breeze through the windows
of the VW - save it for a time when she could enjoy it.

A blue Citroen passed in the opposite direction, the only other car she’d
seen since leaving the village. The desire to turn around and retrace her route
returned. How far out could this place be and still have Le Muy as its ad-
dress? Then she saw it, maybe a quarter of a mile ahead on the right. Not
the gates, for she was too far away yet, but a sight that she was certain de-
noted what she was looking for. It was the trees. Conifers. Lots of them,
tall and thin, standing like a line of sentries, conspicuously distinct from the
indigenous arbour in their regimentation and their dress. They stood in rigid
perpendicular ranks, clothed tightly and slim in thick green, masking what-
ever was beyond them from the road. As Jane drew nearer she could see a low
stone wall supporting iron railings in front of these looming guards. The wall
skirted the trees for a considerable distance in both visible directions, broken
